<doc>
<title>Gadot Chemical Tankers and Terminals Ltd. ("Gadot") Completes ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-22</date>
<snippet>... forward-looking statements, including among others, the economic and political conditions in Israel, the Middle East, including the situation in Iraq, and the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
TEL AVIV, Israel--(Business Wire)--
Ampal-American Israel Corporation (Nasdaq:AMPL), a holding company with
experience in acquiring interests in various businesses with emphasis in recent
years on energy, communications and related fields, announced today that its
subsidiary, Gadot, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, has completed the
previously announced purchase of the entire issued and outstanding share capital
of ADPO GHENT NV ("ADPO") for a purchase price of €30,000,000 (approximately
$38.1 Million). 

The transaction was completed on August 20, 2010. Gadot's subsidiary obtained a
long term credit facility from Israel Discount Bank Ltd for the financing of the
purchase price. 

ADPO owns and operates a state of the art chemical storage terminal in Ghent,
Belgium, over an area of 25 Hectares of land, with a storage capacity of
approximately 100,000 Cubic Meters, and its purchase shall allow Gadot to expand
its global business and maximize Gadot's abilities for delivering products and
services worldwide. 

About Ampal:

Ampal and its subsidiaries acquire interests primarily in businesses located in
the State of Israel or that are Israel-related. Ampal is seeking opportunistic
situations in a variety of industries, with a focus on energy, chemicals,
communications and related sectors. Ampal`s goal is to develop or acquire
majority interests in businesses that are profitable and generate significant
free cash flow that Ampal can control. For more information about Ampal please
visit our web site at www.ampal.com. 

Safe Harbor Statement

Certain information in this press release includes forward-looking statements
(within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and information relating to Ampal that
are based on the beliefs of management of Ampal as well as assumptions made by
and information currently available to the management of Ampal. When used in
this press release, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect,"
"intend," "plan," and similar expressions as they relate to Ampal or Ampal's
management, identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the
current views of Ampal with respect to future events or future financial
performance of Ampal, the outcome of which is subject to certain risks and other
factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated by the forward-looking statements, including among others, the
economic and political conditions in Israel, the Middle East, including the
situation in Iraq, and the global business and economic conditions in the
different sectors and markets where Ampal's portfolio companies operate. Should
any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying
assumptions prove incorrect, actual results or outcome may vary from those
described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or
planned. Subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to
Ampal or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety
by the cautionary statements in this paragraph. Please refer to the Ampal's
annual, quarterly and periodic reports on file with the SEC for a more detailed
discussion of these and other risks that could cause results to differ
materially. Ampal assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
statements.

AMPAL-AMERICAN ISRAEL CORPORATION
Irit Eluz, 1 866-447-8636
CFO - SVP Finance & Treasurer
irit@ampal.com
or
KM/KCSA - Investor Relations
Roni Gavrielov, 011-972-3-516-7620
roni@km-ir.co.il
or
Jeff Corbin, 212-896-1214
jcorbin@kcsa.com
Marybeth Csaby, 212-896-1236
mcsaby@kcsa.com
or
PM-PR Media consultants
Zeev Feiner, 011-972-50-790-7890
z@pm-pr.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>