<doc>
<title>Bluegreen Communities Supports NAPE Expo, Operation FINALLY HOME ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-20</date>
<snippet>... Hornaday is a veteran of the US Army who sustained injuries in Baghdad in 2004 and Sergeant Wilson is a US Army veteran who was also injured in Iraq in early ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Veterans and Their Families Will Receive Land and New, Custom-Built Homes at the
Bridges at Preston Crossings in Gunter, Texas
DALLAS--(Business Wire)--
Bluegreen Communities (NYSE:BXG), a developer of premier master-planned
communities, is pleased to announce its participation in Operation FINALLY HOME.
The organization, founded by Houston`s Bay Area Builders Association and
sponsored by the NAPE Expo, the world`s largest oil and gas exposition, honors
wounded and disabled veterans and widows of fallen soldiers with new homes. 

Bluegreen Communities is working with the NAPE Expo and Operation FINALLY HOME
to honor five families with land and custom-built homes at The Bridges at
Preston Crossings, a beautiful, master-planned community in Gunter, Texas. The
Bridges is centrally located along the North Dallas Growth Corridor, between
U.S. Highway 75 and Preston Road. The community is built on the famous Double M
Ranch and features a Fred Couples Signature Golf Course, first-class equestrian
center and a 24-acre fishing and canoeing lake, among other amenities. Each
family will receive an estate lot and a new home designed by RDGS Architects and
built by Classic Custom Homes. 

The first two families to be honored include war heroes Sergeant First Class
Alan Hornaday and his wife, Sheila, of Fordyce, Arkansas, as well as Sergeant
Levi Wilson, Jr. and his wife, Katie, of Fort Worth, Texas. Sergeant First Class
Hornaday is a veteran of the U.S. Army who sustained injuries in Baghdad in 2004
and Sergeant Wilson is a U.S. Army veteran who was also injured in Iraq in early
2008. Both families will receive a land lot and custom-built home in The
Bridges, with construction beginning in September 2010. Bluegreen Communities
will continue this initiative in Spring 2011 when three more veterans and their
families will also be honored with lots and new homes at The Bridges. 

"It is an honor for Bluegreen Communities to support the members of our military
who have sacrificed so much to protect our country," said Dan Koscher, president
and CEO of Bluegreen Communities. "We are proud to be a part of Operation
FINALLY HOME and are excited for these deserving families to call The Bridges
home." 

"We are thankful that Bluegreen Communities is joining us in Operation FINALLY
HOME," said Dan Wallrath, founder and president of Bay Area Builders Association
Support Our Troops/Operation FINALLY HOME. "This tremendous program was created
five years ago and has been successful because of the generosity and support of
companies like Bluegreen Communities." 

The community at The Bridges and leaders from the City of Gunter will host a
celebration ceremony in honor of the veterans and their families on Wednesday,
August 25, 2010 at 11:00 a.m. The event will take place at The Bridges Golf Club
at The Bridges at Preston Crossings, 2400 Fred Couples Drive, Gunter, Texas
75078. Guests will have the opportunity to meet with the inspiring families as
well as past program recipients. Attendees will be treated to lunch and tours of
the property including the golf course and equestrian center. To RSVP for the
ceremony, e-mail social@bluegreenland.com. 

Businesses and donors interested in contributing to Support Our Troops/Operation
FINALLY HOME can visit http://www.babasupport.org/. 

About Bluegreen Communities

Bluegreen Communities, a division of Bluegreen Corporation (NYSE: BXG), is a
developer of master-planned communities, including eight communities in Texas
located near San Antonio, Austin, Houston and Dallas/Fort Worth. Over the past
40 years, Bluegreen Communities has developed top-rated communities in some of
our nation`s most coveted areas, offering the perfect balance of country living
and city convenience, with privacy and scenery paramount. Bluegreen has sold
over 55,000 master-planned residential and golf community homesites in 32 states
and is an award-winning green developer. The company`s commitment to responsible
land use, environmental protection, as well as to the safekeeping and
conservation of its communities through reasonable protective covenants ensure
they can be enjoyed by generations to come. For more information on Bluegreen
Communities, visit www.bluegreencommunities.com. Connect with us on Facebook at
www.facebook.com/bluegreenland and Twitter @BluegreenLand. 

About The Bridges at Preston Crossings

The Bridges at Preston Crossings is a beautiful, master-planned community
located in Gunter, Texas built on the famous Double M Ranch. This premiere
community is located approximately one hour from Dallas and allows residents to
experience its rich history for daily living or a weekend retreat. The community
features one-third to 2-acre homesites including creek front, heavily wooded and
golf course properties. The Bridges also has a wide array of amenities for
residents who enjoy the outdoors and need a break from the city. Amenities
include: Fred Couples Signature Golf Course, first- class equestrian center,
24-acre fishing and canoeing lake, walking and riding Trails, future swim and
fitness center and a community horse park. For more information on The Bridges,
visit www.bridgestexas.com. Connect with us on Facebook at
www.facebook.com/BridgesTexas. 

About Bay Area Builders Association Support Our Troops/Operation FINALLY HOME

The Bay Area Builders Association Support Our Troops/Operation FINALLY HOME was
established in 2005 as a non-partisan/non-profit 501 (c)(3) organization. The
mission of the organization is to provide custom made homes to wounded and
disabled veterans and the widows of the fallen in an effort to get their lives
back on track and become productive members of their communities. BABASOT
partners with corporate sponsors, individual contributors and volunteers to help
severely wounded heroes and their families` transition from the battlefront to
the home front. Visit www.babasupport.com for more information. 

About NAPE Expo

The world`s largest E&P (upstream) expo, NAPE Expo provides a marketplace for
the buying, selling and trading of oil and gas prospects and producing
properties via exhibit booths. NAPE Expo brings prospects and producing
properties (from the U.S. and around the world), capital formation, services and
technologies all together in one location, creating a pure market place to
establish strategic alliances for doing business and initiating purchases and
trades. NAPE Expos are held twice a year in Houston. Visit www.napeexpo.com for
more information. 

Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6403281&lang=en

Nunez PR Group on behalf of Bluegreen Communities
Ansley Campbell, 972-380-9594
Ansley@Nunezprgroup.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>