<doc>
<title>Government of Canada Marks Second Annual World Humanitarian Day</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-20</date>
<snippet>... celebrates World Humanitarian Day on August 19 every year, to commemorate the 22 humanitarian workers killed in the bombing of the UN office in Iraq in 2003. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  OTTAWA, ONTARIO, Aug 20 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
The Honourable Beverley J. Oda, Minister of International Cooperation,
today acknowledged the second annual World Humanitarian Day, which takes
place on August 19. 

    "This year, World Humanitarian Day falls during a time of crisis, as
floods continue to devastate Pakistan," said Minister Oda. "The recent
flooding serves as a reminder of the important role humanitarian workers
play each and every day. Our Government is proud to work with
humanitarian aid workers on the ground to ensure they are able to deliver
life-saving humanitarian assistance to those who urgently need it."

    On World Humanitarian Day, Canadians are encouraged to recognize the
remarkable contributions and sacrifices that humanitarian workers from
Canada and around the world make as they deliver aid. Every day,
humanitarian workers suffer hardship and face potential danger as they
work to alleviate suffering and meet the needs of the world's most
vulnerable.

    CIDA supports the humanitarian efforts of partner organizations,
including the Red Cross Movement, the United Nations (UN), and many
nongovernmental organizations, and applauds the work they do to provide
needed food, emergency shelter, water and sanitation, emergency medical
care and protection to affected populations, who are often in
difficult-to-reach locations. 

    "This day offers an important opportunity to reflect on the significant
strides that have been made to strengthen the international humanitarian
system to better serve those in need and support those on the front line
in the provision of humanitarian assistance," noted the Honourable
Lawrence Cannon, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is presently at the UN
to attend a Special Session of the General Assembly on the floods in
Pakistan. "These professionals exemplify the principles of humanitarian
aid: humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. I call on all
governments to respect and facilitate the efforts of humanitarian workers
everywhere."

    "I'm proud the Canadian Forces are involved in 16 international missions
that assist in securing peace and enabling humanitarian assistance," said
the Honourable Peter MacKay, Minister of National Defence. "Whether it be
in Haiti, Afghanistan or elsewhere that the Government of Canada
intervenes of behalf of those suffering, the Canadian Forces have a
proven record of helping those in need."

    The United Nations celebrates World Humanitarian Day on August 19 every
year, to commemorate the 22 humanitarian workers killed in the bombing of
the UN office in Iraq in 2003. This day recognizes that the dangers
associated with humanitarian work have grown in recent years, with a
dramatic increase in the number of aid workers who have become targets of
violence, such as those killed in Afghanistan earlier this month.
Canada's approach also includes advocating strongly for the safety and
security of humanitarian workers, and for their full, safe and unhindered
humanitarian access, so that affected populations can receive timely and
effective assistance. 

    World Humanitarian Day allows us to give thanks, on behalf of all
Canadians, to humanitarian aid workers. Their efforts are to be
applauded.

Contacts:
Office of the Minister of International Cooperation
Isabelle Bouchard
Director of Communications
819-953-6238
Cell: 613-355-2465

Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
Media Relations Office
819-953-6534
media@acdi-cida.gc.ca

Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs
Melissa Lantsman
613-995-1851

Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada
Foreign Affairs Media Relations Office
613-995-1874

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>