<doc>
<title>Injured Service Members Take on Hood to Coast</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-19</date>
<snippet>... Coast relay. These men and women are service members who were severely injured in the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. The sponsorship ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Team of 12 Severely Injured Veterans Compete in Oregon`s Iconic Relay Race
PORTLAND, Ore.--(Business Wire)--
StandardInsurance Company ("The Standard"), today announced its sponsorship of
the first-ever team of disabled service members who will compete in Oregon`s
iconic Hood to Coast relay. These men and women are service members who were
severely injured in the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. 

The sponsorship, in partnership with Disabled Sports USA and the Challenged
Athletes Foundation, enables the participation of "Team Warfighter Sports" in
the Hood to Coast relay. The team includes 12 runners, 11 men and 1 woman who
are amputees, blind, experience post traumatic stress disorder, have severe
muscle damage or other physical injuries. Armed with the latest technology,
prosthetics and even a hand cycle, these 12 undaunted service members will
challenge 1,200 other non-disabled teams to the competition of their lifetime -
Hood to Coast`s grueling 197-mile relay race. 

"At The Standard, supporting partners that provide rehabilitation and
opportunity for those with disabling injuries is an extension of our company
values," said Greg Ness, president and CEO of The Standard. "Our belief in the
abilities of those with disabilities, and our deep respect for the brave men and
women who serve our country, made sponsorship of these wounded warriors an easy
decision." 

Disabled Sports USA`s "Warfighter Sports Series" is a schedule of challenge
events that help military service members with permanent disabilities, such as
amputated limbs, spinal cord injury, visual impairment, and traumatic brain
injury, train for and challenge themselves in extreme and endurance sports. 

"We`re excited to partner with The Standard and provide this team the
opportunity to participate in this exciting event," said Kirk Bauer, executive
director of Disabled Sports USA. "After serving thousands of severely injured
service members from Iraq and Afghanistan through rehabilitation sports programs
for the past seven years, our disabled veterans are now yearning for an
opportunity to test their skills to the extreme, as they did in the military.
Our Warfighter Sports Series provides this - helping them to not just survive
their injuries, but to thrive and achieve personal and professional success." 

Hood to Coast begins at 6:30 a.m., Friday, August 27 at Timberline Lodge. 

About The Standard

StanCorp Financial Group, Inc. (NYSE:SFG), through its subsidiaries marketed as
The Standard, is a leading provider of employee benefits and financial products
and services. Insurance products are offered by Standard Insurance Company of
Portland, Ore., in all states except New York, where insurance products are
offered by The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York of White Plains, N.Y.
The company serves approximately 8 million customers nationwide as of June 30,
2010, with group and individual disability insurance, group life, AD&D, dental
and vision insurance, retirement plans products and services, individual
annuities and investment advice. For more information about The Standard, visit
www.standard.com. 

The Standard is the marketing name for StanCorp Financial Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries: Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of
New York, Standard Retirement Services, StanCorp Mortgage Investors, StanCorp
Investment Advisers, StanCorp Real Estate and StanCorp Equities. 

About Disabled Sports USA

Founded in 1967 by disabled Vietnam veterans, Disabled Sports USA (DSUSA)
provides opportunities for individuals with disabilities to rebuild their lives
through sports, recreation and educational programs. DSUSA is a national
multi-sport, multi-disability organization serving more than 60,000 youth and
adults annually. A member of the U.S. Olympic Committee, DSUSA offers programs
through its nationwide network of over 100 community-based chapters operating in
38 states. For schedules and additional information, visit www.dsusa.org. 

DSUSA is a member of the Combined Federal Campaign number: 10151 

About Challenged Athletes Foundation

It is the mission of the Challenged Athletes Foundation to provide opportunities
and support to people with physical disabilities so they can pursue active
lifestyles through physical fitness and competitive athletics. The Challenged
Athletes Foundation believes that involvement in sports at any level increases
self-esteem, encourages independence and enhances quality of life. 

Challenged Athletes Foundation`s(CAF) Operation Rebound program provides
unparalleled sports opportunities and support to American troops and veterans of
any branch of service, past and present, and first responders who have suffered
permanent physical injuries in the line of duty. CAF`s Operation Rebound(OR)
provides support through grants which provides direct funding for the
acquisition of adaptive sports equipment, training and competition expenses,
mentors for physical training programs at military medical centers, beginner
athlete sports clinics, and an on-line forum where Operation Rebound members and
their families can stay connected.

StandardInsurance Company
General Media
Bob Speltz, Director, Public Affairs
971-321-3162
bob.speltz@standard.com
or
Investor Relations and Financial Media
Jeff Hallin, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations
971-321-6127
jeff.hallin@standard.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>