<doc>
<title>CACI Awarded $19 Million Prime Contract to Support Comprehensive ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-19</date>
<snippet>... based on a change in spending patterns, or in the event of a priority need for funds, such as homeland security, the war on terrorism or rebuilding Iraq; or an ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
New Work Sustains and Enhances Software Application Used Within Major Range and
Test Facility Bases and Air Force Research Laboratories


ARLINGTON, Va.--(Business Wire)--
CACI International Inc (NYSE: CACI) announced today that it has been awarded a
$19 million prime contract to sustain and enhance the Air Force`s Job Order Cost
Accounting System (JOCAS II) for the 554th Electronic Systems Group at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH. The new work on the five-year contract (one
base, four option years) will enhance management financial tracking for major
range and test facility bases and Air Force research laboratories. The award
increases both the size and scope of CACI`s financial management system support
and strengthens the company`s functional core competency in business system
solutions. 

JOCAS II enables managers to monitor labor and other direct and indirect costs
more efficiently and better manage Air Force projects. CACI will maintain and
enhance the current operational functionality to fit appropriately within the
larger Air Force financial system while ensuring JOCAS II continues to stay
compliant with all governing policies, regulations, and guidance. The company
will also support any integration of JOCAS II modules with the Air Force core
accounting system modernization effort. 

The company`s business system solutions functional core competency provides
solutions that address the full spectrum of requirements in the financial,
procurement, human resources, budget, and supply chain domains. The team`s
offerings include services, consulting, and software integration that support
the full lifecycle of commercial technology implementations from blueprint
through application sustainment. 

According to Bill Fairl, CACI`s President of U.S. Operations, "This new work for
the 554th Electronic Systems Group solidifies CACI`s role - and reinforces our
standing - as a Tier 1 provider of federal financial systems. It demonstrates
the wide-ranging capabilities that our business system solutions functional core
competency team brings to every program it supports." 

CACI President and CEO Paul Cofoni said, "CACI has been supporting U.S. Air
Force programs at Wright Patterson for nearly 30 years, and we`re pleased to add
this award to our portfolio. By providing managers of research laboratory and
test range projects with better ways to track their expenses through JOCAS II,
we`re helping the Air Force refine their cutting edge technology solutions that
are so vital to helping warfighters accomplish their missions." 

CACI provides professional services and IT solutions needed to prevail in the
defense, intelligence, homeland security, and federal civilian government
arenas. We deliver enterprise IT and network services; data, information, and
knowledge management services; business system solutions; logistics and material
readiness; C4ISR integration services; cyber solutions; integrated security and
intelligence solutions; and program management and SETA support services. CACI
services and solutions help our federal clients provide for national security,
improve communications and collaboration, secure the integrity of information
systems and networks, enhance data collection and analysis, and increase
efficiency and mission effectiveness. CACI is a member of the Fortune 1000
Largest Companies and the Russell 2000 index. CACI provides dynamic careers for
approximately 13,200 employees working in over 120 offices in the U.S. and
Europe. Visit CACI on the web at www.caci.com and www.asymmetricthreat.net. 

There are statements made herein which do not address historical facts, and
therefore could be interpreted to be forward-looking statements as that term is
defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements
are subject to factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
anticipated results. The factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from those anticipated include, but are not limited to, the
following: regional and national economic conditions in the United States and
the United Kingdom, including conditions that result from a prolonged recession;
terrorist activities or war; changes in interest rates; currency fluctuations;
significant fluctuations in the equity markets; failure to achieve contract
awards in connection with recompetes for present business and/or competition for
new business; the risks and uncertainties associated with client interest in and
purchases of new products and/or services; continued funding of U.S. government
or other public sector projects, based on a change in spending patterns, or in
the event of a priority need for funds, such as homeland security, the war on
terrorism or rebuilding Iraq; or an economic stimulus package; government
contract procurement (such as bid protest, small business set asides, loss of
work due to organizational conflicts of interest, etc.) and termination risks;
the results of government investigations into allegations of improper actions
related to the provision of services in support of U.S. military operations in
Iraq; the results of government audit and reviews conducted by the Defense
Contract Audit Agency or other government entities with cognizant oversight;
individual business decisions of our clients; paradigm shifts in technology;
competitive factors such as pricing pressures and/or competition to hire and
retain employees (particularly those with security clearances); market
speculation regarding our continued independence; material changes in laws or
regulations applicable to our businesses, particularly in connection with (i)
government contracts for services, (ii) outsourcing of activities that have been
performed by the government, (iii) competition for task orders under Government
Wide Acquisition Contracts ("GWACs") and/or schedule contracts with the General
Services Administration; and (iv) accounting for convertible debt instruments;
our own ability to achieve the objectives of near term or long range business
plans; and other risks described in the company`s Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.

CACI International Inc
Corporate Communications and Media:
Jody Brown, Executive Vice President, Public Relations
(703) 841-7801
jbrown@caci.com
or
Investor Relations:
David Dragics, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
(866) 606-3471
ddragics@caci.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>