<doc>
<title>Investigation Discovery Premieres Controversial New Documentary ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... Bergen has reported on al Qaeda, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and counterterrorism and homeland security for a range of American newspapers and magazines ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    

		
			Investigation Discovery Premieres Controversial New Documentary About the Hunt for Osama bin Laden
			Hosted by Journalist Peter Bergen, ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE?
			Premieres Sunday, September 12 at 10PM ET
			PR Newswire
			SILVER SPRING, Md., Aug. 17
		
			SILVER SPRING, Md., Aug. 17 /PRNewswire/ -- As the U.S. embarks on its 10th year since September 11, America's leading investigation network takes an in-depth look at how it is possible that no one has been able to capture -- or kill -- Osama bin Laden.  Despite the world's biggest and most expensive manhunt, the figure at the heart of the war against terror is still at large and seems to have vanished from the face of the earth.  Hosted by CNN's national security analyst, Peter Bergen, ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE examines popular conspiracy theories surrounding the disappearance of the world's most notorious villain as well as the continued threat from al-Qaeda.   ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE premieres on
					Sunday, September 12 at 10PM ET."Given the United States' sophisticated surveillance technology and capabilities, ID will explore the reasons why international forces have not been able to capture a man who killed so many Americans, let alone one who remains an ongoing threat to our safety," said Henry Schleiff, president and general manager, Investigation Discovery. "ID is proud to partner with the world-class news unit at the BBC, and world-renowned journalist Peter Bergen, to offer viewers an in-depth examination into the theories surrounding his disappearance, and provide some possible answers -- something we're all looking for."Bergen has reported on al Qaeda, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and counterterrorism and homeland security for a range of American newspapers and magazines, having traveled repeatedly to Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia to report on bin Laden and al Qaeda.  He is one of the few journalists in the world to interview Osama bin Laden in person.  In this new special, Bergen provides commentary and insight into the quest to find Osama bin Laden.  The documentary features an original BBC interview -- one of only two in television -- with Dalton Fury, Delta Force commander at Tora Bora.  WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE? also features interviews with Frances Fragos Townsend, Homeland Security Advisor (2004-2007); Hank Crumpton, former head of CIA operations in Afghanistan (2001-2002); Mike Scheuer, former head of the CIA Bin Laden unit; Bruce Riedel, former CIA Officer and special advisor to the Obama administration; Robert Baer, former CIA Officer (1976-1997) and Ahmad Zaidan, Islamabad bureau chief, Al Jazeera. WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE? is part of ID INVESTIGATES, the network's signature strand that shines a light on contemporary issues in the public eye.  These investigative specials exemplify Investigation Discovery's commitment to pursuing a fascinating spectrum of stories focused on the quest for justice that provide context and depth to today's headlines.  ID INVESTIGATES: WHY IS BIN LADEN ALIVE is produced by Investigation Discovery and the BBC.  Sara Kozak is executive producer and Ron Simon is supervising producer for ID.  The special is an acquisition from the BBC, edited with new material and interviews from Investigation Discovery.  For the BBC, Samantha Antiss is executive producer and Mike Rudin is director/producer/writer.About Investigation Discovery
			Investigation Discovery (ID), America's leading investigation network, is the source for fact-based investigative content about culture, history and the human condition.  Providing the highest quality investigative programming focused on fascinating stories of human nature from the past to the present, Investigation Discovery's in-depth documentaries and series challenge viewers on important issues shaping our culture and defining our world.  As the premier authority in real investigations, ID is expanding partnerships with established news organizations and production companies to bring the strongest analytic, factual investigative and current affairs programming to over 63 million U.S. households.  For more information, please visit investigationdiscovery.com.Follow ID on twitter:  http://www.twitter.com/DiscoveryIDSOURCE  Investigation Discovery
		


	
    </content>
</doc>