<doc>
<title>Realtor(R) Award Finalists Find Ways to Give</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... Wendy & John Rocca, Century 21 Commonwealth, Watertown, Mass. The Roccas founded Operation American Soldier in 2003 while their daughter was deployed in Iraq. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  CHICAGO, IL, Aug 17 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Realtors(R) play an important leadership role in building our
communities, sharing their time and talents to help others in need. Ten
such individuals were recognized today by the National Association of
Realtors(R) as finalists for REALTOR(R) Magazine's 2010 Good Neighbor
Awards. 

    For 11 years the Good Neighbor Awards program has recognized Realtors(R)
who volunteer to serve the basic needs of some of the community's most
vulnerable individuals. These Realtors(R) donate countless dollars and
unpaid hours of service to organizations that help improve and enhance
their communities. 

    In November, five winners will be selected from among the 10 finalists
and will receive travel expenses to the 2010 REALTORS(R) Conference &
Expo in New Orleans, national media exposure for their community cause
and a $10,000 grant for their charity. The five honorable mentions will
receive a $2,500 grant. The winners will be announced in the
November/December issue of REALTOR(R) Magazine.

    "Realtors(R) build communities and understand the importance of helping
others," said NAR President Vicki Cox Golder, a Realtor(R) and owner of
Vicki L. Cox & Associates, Tucson, Ariz. "Many organizations are
struggling today to do more with fewer resources, which makes the work of
volunteers so much more important. The Good Neighbor Award finalists
deserve to be recognized for the time, energy and ideas they bring to
their community organizations." 

    The Realtor(R) Good Neighbor Awards finalists are:

    James Arnhold, Source Realty, LLC, Virginia Beach, Va.
 Arnhold has
supported EQUI-KIDS Therapeutic Riding Program, an organization that
offers therapy to people with mental and physical disabilities, since
2002, when he and his partner donated 92 acres of land for its move and
expansion. He supervised the facility's construction, including an indoor
horse-riding arena to allow therapy year-round. He has also headed the
Capital Campaign and raised more than $3 million for the organization.
Currently, 70 students a week work with the horses to improve
self-confidence, fine motor skills, balance, concentration and social
skills. 

    Keri Kidd Cannon and Pam Kidd, Fridrich & Clark Realty LLC, Nashville,
Tenn.
 This mother and daughter team have been helping people in Zimbabwe
since 1999, traveling to this struggling African country more than 20
times. They founded Village Hope, a rural orphanage that cares for 20
children and also founded an outreach program for street children and
homeless adults in the capital city of Harare. They feed 900 school
children per day as well as hundreds of people from surrounding villages.
Their agricultural programs provide seed corn and farm animals and teach
farming techniques. They recently helped launched a dental clinic and are
training locals to provide basic dental care.

    Cathie McGregor Critchlow, The Franklin Group Morgan LLC, Morgan, Utah 

Critchlow is president and co-founder of The Women's Retreat House, a
live-in spiritual 12-Step retreat home that houses up to 20 women at a
time for up to four months while they overcome addiction. Critchlow
manages the all-volunteer staff and works hands-on with the residents to
help them overcome their addictions and assess their needs for
counseling, parenting classes, job training, medical attention and
domestic violence counseling. More than 275 women have been served since
the retreat house opened its doors in 2008.

    James T. Elcock, Elcock Properties, St. Charles, Mo.
 Elcock founded Kids
Against Hunger, Metro St. Charles/St. Louis satellite to provide
nutritionally rich food to fight hunger in the U.S. and abroad. Since
2009 he has distributed 550,000 meals -- locally through the St. Louis
Food Bank, for disaster relief in the U.S. and Haiti, and internationally
to countries suffering from chronic hunger including Nicaragua and
Uganda. Elcock has involved more than 3,000 volunteers in food packaging
events, which are organized to assemble the unique rice-based recipe that
costs only 23 cents a serving.

    Janice Mueller, RE/MAX Creative Realty, Lexington, Ky.
 Mueller founded
the Makenna Foundation, which in nine years has raised more than $1.2
million and is the largest fundraiser for the Kentucky Children's
Hospital. Funds have provided state-of-the-art medical equipment and
much-needed renovations. In July 2010, the foundation celebrated the
grand opening of the Makenna David Pediatric Emergency Center, with a
child-friendly waiting room and 15 state-of-the-art exam rooms.

    Joseph D. Perry, RE/MAX-Gold, Clovis, Calif.
 Ten years ago, Perry
founded an after-school mentoring and tutoring program, Boys2Men
Girls2Women, which now serves 125 children, ages 6 to 18. Most children
are from low-income single-parent households in Fresno, Calif., where the
dropout rate is one of the highest in the country and 35 percent of
children live below the poverty level. The program pairs each child with
caring mentors and provides homework assistance, individualized tutoring
and leadership development classes.

    Dave Philp, Coldwell Banker Burnet, Chaska, Minn.
 For more than 25
years, Philp has supported the Ridgeview Foundation, the fundraising arm
of the Ridgeview Medical Center, a nonprofit regional health care network
in the western suburbs of Minneapolis. Philp has raised $3 million
through annual golf tournaments and other events; that money has been
critical to building a state-of-the-art birthing center, neonatal care
unit, a hospice home, a heart center, and a scholarship fund to address
the shortage of healthcare workers.

    Thomas Joseph Rempson, T.R. Lawing Realty Inc., Charlotte, N.C.
 Rempson
founded Realtors(R) Care Day, a community-wide home repair project run
through the Charlotte Regional Realtor(R) Association that helps
deserving homeowners with critical but unaffordable home repairs and
safety modifications. In 2010, more than 700 Realtors(R) worked at 31
homes making repairs, replacing roofs and building wheelchair ramps.
Rempson facilitated partnerships with other local housing nonprofits to
identify people who needed help and partnered with a company to recycle
roof shingles into asphalt for local roads.

    Wendy & John Rocca, Century 21 Commonwealth, Watertown, Mass.
 The Roccas
founded Operation American Soldier in 2003 while their daughter was
deployed in Iraq. OAS sends "cheer" packages and letters of support to
soldiers, especially those who otherwise would receive nothing at mail
call. More than 30,000 pounds have been sent overseas, filled with
snacks, beverages, books, magazines and other fun items. Each box also
contains a letter asking if the soldier knows of anyone else who is not
receiving support from home who would appreciate a package. The Roccas
have spent more than $15,000 of their own money on postage and goods.

    Kim Turley, Prudential California Realty, Yucaipa, Calif.
 In 1998 Turley
founded Joseph's Storehouse Food Bank and Resource Center, now called The
Blessing Center, which provides food and clothing for distressed families
in Redlands, Calif. The center now serves 9,000 people per month within a
30-mile radius, and involves volunteers from more than 20 local churches
and dozens of civic groups. They provide Thanksgiving dinner for 1,500
needy families and recently acquired a 10,000 square-foot building, which
will house a cold-weather homeless shelter.

    "Realtors(R) volunteer because they want to make a difference and help
somebody," said NAR Vice President of Publications and REALTOR(R)
Magazine Editorial Director Pamela Geurds Kabati. "It certainly makes a
difference to the individuals they help, but the community as a whole
also benefits from their generosity." 

    REALTOR(R) Magazine's Good Neighbor Awards is sponsored by Lowe's and
HouseLogic. In addition to the grant awards, each of the Good Neighbor
Award winners will receive a $2,000 Lowe's gift card, and each of the
honorable mentions will receive a $1,000 Lowe's gift card.

    Nominees were judged on their personal contribution of time, as well as
financial and material contributions, to benefit their cause. To be
eligible, nominees must be NAR members in good standing.

    More information about the Good Neighbor Awards finalists is available at
www.realtor.org/realtormag. 

    Lowe's (www.lowes.com) has worked with customers to maintain and improve
their homes since 1946. Lowe's is proud to support the Good Neighbor
Awards. Lowe's is a proud supporter of Habitat for Humanity
International, American Red Cross, SkillsUSA/SkillsCanada, and The Nature
Conservancy, in addition to numerous nonprofit organizations and programs
that help communities in North America. In 2009, Lowe's and the Lowe's
Charitable and Educational Foundation together contributed more than $30
million to support community and education projects in North America.
Lowe's also encourages volunteerism through the Lowe's Heroes program, a
company-wide employee volunteer initiative. Lowe's, a proud partner in
NAR's REALTOR Benefits(R) Program, brings Realtors(R) exclusive benefits
to help build relationships with their customers, generate referrals and
expand their client base. The benefits program is featured on
www.LowesRealtorBenefits.com. 

    HouseLogic, www.houselogic.com, is a free source of information and tools
from the National Association of Realtors(R) that can help homeowners
make smart and timely decisions about their home. With content covering
home improvement, maintenance, taxes, finance, insurance, and even ways
to get involved in and enrich their community, HouseLogic can help
homeowners increase and protect the value of their home by helping them
make confident decisions.

    The National Association of Realtors(R), "The Voice for Real Estate," is
America's largest trade association, representing 1.1 million members
involved in all aspects of the residential and commercial real estate
industries.

    Information about NAR is available at www.realtor.org. This and other
news releases are posted in the Web site's "News Media" section in the
NAR Media Center.

    REALTOR(R) is a registered collective membership mark which may be used
only by real estate professionals who are members of the NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS(R) and subscribe to its strict Code of Ethics.
Not all real estate agents are REALTORS(R). All REALTORS(R) are members
of NAR.

    

For further information contact:
Sara Geimer
312/329-8296 
sgeimer@realtors.org

Sara Wiskerchen
202/383-1013
swiskerchen@realtors.org 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>