<doc>
<title>REG-Jupiter Green Investment Trust PLC: Interim Management ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-13</date>
<snippet>... BP Oil Disaster It goes without saying that the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has been an extraordinary environmental disaster. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Jupiter Green Investment Trust PLC
Interim Management Statement for the three months to 30 June 2010

 

 

The Board of Jupiter Green Investment Trust PLC (the "Company") is pleased to announce
its interim management statement for the three months ended 30 June 2010.  

 

Investment Manager's Report for the three months ended 30 June 2010

 

Performance Review
With effect from 1 April 2010 the Trust's benchmark index was changed to the MSCI World
Small Cap Index (total return). For the three months ended 30 June 2010 the total return
for the Trust was -11.1%* compared to a return of -9.5%* for the Trust's benchmark
index.

 

Market and Policy Review
During the June quarter, global stock prices were de-rated on the back of escalating
sovereign debt problems in Europe and signs that growth rates in China and the US were
moderating. Greek debt was downgraded to junk status by ratings agency S&P at the end of
April heightening contagion fears across Europe. A €750bn European Central Bank/IMF
bail-out package in early May provided some stability, but was not widely viewed as a
panacea for Europe's fiscal problems. The region now faces severe fiscal austerity and
fears have grown about a return to recessionary conditions in many Western countries.
Commodity stocks were among the worst affected by the prospect of a downturn in global
growth. Defensive stocks generally outperformed the market.

 

Fund performance
Against this backdrop, the Trust lost ground with concerns about a slowdown in global
growth weighing on several holdings. Horsehead Holdings** (waste management), which
recycles metals such as zinc and aluminium, suffered due to falling commodity prices.
Spanish stocks Telvent** (environmental services) and Abengoa (clean energy) were sold
off by investors on worries about Spain's sovereign debt position, despite both
companies having solid international businesses. Wind power stocks Vestas Wind Systems
and Infigen Energy (clean energy) were marked down to below their long-term growth
potential in our view. Vestas saw a 40 per cent. quarterly increase in orders for the
second quarter, yet is valued for a worst case scenario, in our view. Infigen Energy
lost ground after it pulled the sale of its US wind business due to an unfavourable
pricing environment that was largely being driven by low gas prices. We believe the
management's decision is positive for the long term outlook for the company.
Companies which released positive trading statements generally helped performance.
Rubicon Technology** (clean energy), which manufactures crystalline products for LED
lights, rallied on the back of solid first quarter results. From the sustainable living
theme, United Natural Foods** made progress after the company acquired SunOpta's
Canadian distribution business, while high welfare pork business Cranswick rallied after
announcing a 26 per cent. jump in its annual profit to March 2010. Environmental
services company Atkins rallied off a low valuation after it took steps to plug a gap in
its pension deficit. 

 

 



Investment Outlook
Corporate outlook statements generally showed greater confidence during the European and
US reporting season. Many companies are well positioned - with better cost structures
and strong balance sheets - to profit from economic recovery. However, the macro outlook
has become somewhat opaque in recent months with increased fiscal austerity in Europe
and moderating growth elsewhere in the world. The challenge for businesses will be to
defend their improving earnings. In general, we believe that the potential slowdown in
economic growth is being accounted for in low stock prices.

 

BP Oil Disaster
It goes without saying that the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has been an
extraordinary environmental disaster. It has highlighted the significant environmental
risk associated with deep sea drilling for oil. It has also underscored how
environmental damage at the hands of corporations can present significant reputational
risk, even for oil companies. While the spill in the Gulf is very disturbing, it may
have some positive outcomes in terms of sentiment towards alternative energy and energy
efficiency legislation aimed at lowering the longer term global fossil fuel dependency.
It may also prove a catalyst for greater investment by large international corporations
in technology to improve energy efficiency and the overall environmental impact of their
operations.

 

Charles Thomas
Jupiter Asset Management Limited
Investment Manager

 

 

Total Assets as at 30 June 2010: £38,760,454

 

Shares in Issue on 30 June 2010:

                                                 Net Asset Value (p)  Market Price (p)  Premium/ (Discount)  
 Ordinary (undiluted) excluding income/expenses  94.84                85.75             (10%)                
 Ordinary (undiluted) including income/expenses  95.06                
 Ordinary (diluted) excluding income/expenses    94.84                
 Ordinary (diluted) including income/expenses    95.06                
 Warrants                                        n/a                  3.00              n/a                  


3.00

n/a

Portfolio Distribution on 30 June 2010

 United Kingdom           27%   
 North America            41%   
 Europe                   18%   
 Japan                    7%    
 Other                    3%    
 Cash and fixed interest  4%    
                          100%  


100%

The Company's exposure to other UK listed investment companies was nil on 30 June 2010.

 

 

Top Ten Holdings on 30 June 2010

 Company                 Country of Listing  Activity            % of total assets  
 Cranswick               United Kingdom      Sustainable Living  4.5                
 Novozymes               Denmark             Clean Energy        3.1                
 First Solar             United States       Clean Energy        2.7                
 National Express        United Kingdom      Green Transport     2.7                
 First Group             United Kingdom      Green Transport     2.5                
 American Semiconductor  United States       Clean Energy        2.3                
 Ricardo                 Canada              Water Management    2.2                
 Vestas Wind Systems     Denmark             Clean Energy        2.2                
 Pure Technologies       Canada              Waste Management    2.2                
 Wabtec                  United States       Green Transport     2.2                
                                                                 26.6               


26.6

Comparative Performance to 30 June 2010

                                            Three      One year %  Since launch %  
                                            months %                               
 Total Assets*                              (11.1)     9.5         (2.3)           
 MSCI World Small Cap Index (total return)  (9.5)      31.2        7.4             
 Ordinary Share NAV                         (11.1)     9.5         (2.3)           
 Ordinary Share Price                       (6.3)      12.1        (14.3)          
 Warrant Price                              (45.5)     (65.7)      (85.7)          


(65.7)

(85.7)

* Performance adjusted for share issue/cancellation since launch

 

The Company's Investment Objective 

 

The Company's investment objective is to generate long-term capital growth through a
diverse portfolio of companies providing environmental solutions. 

 

The Company's Investment Policy 

 

The Company invests globally in companies which have a significant focus on
environmental solutions such as Clean Energy, Water Management, Waste Management,
Sustainable Living, Environmental Services and Green Transport. The Company is focused
on the following six green investment themes: 

 

 Clean Energy 
Stand alone power and back-up systems based on wind, solar, flywheels, batteries and
fuel cells; bio-fuels; insulation materials; energy efficiency technologies. 



 Water Management 
Water and wastewater services including sewerage and treatment infrastructure; new
technology-based solutions such as membranes and UV disinfection. 

 

 Waste Management 
Waste reduction and associated technologies; recycling and resource management; recycled
materials. 

 

 Sustainable Living 
Healthy lifestyle sector including organic foods, complementary medicines and
healthcare. 

 

 Environmental Services 
Companies directly benefiting from increased environmental legislation, including
environmental consultancies and providers of safety equipment. 

 

 Green Transport 
Integrated public transport systems; vehicle emissions and energy efficiency control
technologies. 

 

The Company's portfolio has a bias towards small and medium capitalisation companies. It
invests primarily in securities which are quoted, listed or traded on a recognised
exchange. However, up to 5 per cent. of the Company's Total Assets (at the time of such
investment) may be invested in unlisted securities. No such investments have been made
to date.

 

Material Events 

 

At the Company's Annual General Meeting on 28 July the changes to be the Company's
investment policies, described by the Chairman in the Annual Report, were ratified by
shareholders. The Annual Report also sets out details of the consolidation of the
management arrangements and outlook for the Company's dividend policy.

 

 

Company Information

 

Year end:31 March

 

Results:interim results to 30 September 2010 announced November 2010; final results to
31 March 2011, announced June 2011

 

Monthly fact sheets for the Company are available for download from
www.jupiteronline.co.uk  http://www.jupiteronline.co.uk/   and by post or fax on request
from the company secretarial department.

 

The Company's Ordinary shares and Warrants are listed on the London Stock Exchange and
the prices are published in the Financial Times under `Investment Companies'.

 

The Net Asset Values of the Company's Ordinary shares are calculated weekly and can be
viewed on the London Stock Exchange website at www.londonstockexchange.com 
http://www.londonstockexchange.com/   (under the heading 'Market News'). 

 

 



 

 

For further information, please contact: 

 

Richard Pavry 
Director of Investment Trusts 
Jupiter Asset Management Limited
rpavry@jupiter-group.co.uk  mailto:rpavry@jupiter-group.co.uk    
020 7314 4822

 

Faith Pengelly
Company Secretarial Department
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 
fpengelly@jupiter-group.co.uk
020 7314 4915

 

The Company's Registered office is at 1 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7JJ. 

 

This interim management statement has been prepared solely to provide information to
meet the requirements of the UK Listing Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules.

 

By order of the Board
Jupiter Asset Management Limited
13 August 2010

HUG#1437952




	
    </content>
</doc>