<doc>
<title>Spectrum Resorts Commended by Evan Hirsche for Generous ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-12</date>
<snippet>... the Fish and Wildlife Association, including Evan Hirsche, president of the NWRA, during a tour to survey the effects of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill on the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    

		
			Spectrum Resorts Commended by Evan Hirsche for Generous Contribution to Assist in Preservation of Wildlife on Alabama's Gulf Coast
			PR Newswire
			GULF SHORES, Ala., Aug. 12
		
			GULF SHORES, Ala., Aug. 12 /PRNewswire/ -- Spectrum Resorts recently hosted a group of 14 officials, employees and volunteers of the National Wildlife Refuge Association and the Fish and Wildlife Association, including Evan Hirsche, president of the NWRA, during a tour to survey the effects of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill on the Bon Secour National Wildlife Refuge. Hirche, as president of the NWRA, is based out of Washington, D.C.While visiting The Beach Club in Gulf Shores, Spectrum Resorts General Manager Kathleen Williams presented Hirsche with a check for $1,000 to service the needs of the organization through the Friends of the Bon Secour National Wildlife Refuge group."The Refuge is dear to us at The Beach Club, as we are right next door and work to protect the sea turtles during nesting season, as well as the other wildlife that we and our guests co-habitat with," she said. "We raised the funds through the sale of our 'Support Alabama's Gulf Coast' T-shirts that local artist, Michael Booth, designed at the onset of the oil spill."Williams noted that the resort company, which includes The Beach Club in Gulf Shores, Ala. and Turquoise Place and Caribe Resort in Orange Beach, Ala., is still raising funds for the refuge through its T-shirt sales. "A portion of the proceeds from each shirt sale is donated to the refuge," she said. "We also give each check-in party a complimentary shirt as a 'thank you' for keeping their vacation plans intact despite the oil spill." Spectrum Resorts went a step further by donating $2,250 to the National Wildlife Refuge organizations during the recent telethon hosted by Larry King on CNN.During the check presentation to the Refuge, Hirsche thanked Spectrum Resorts for heeding the call to action and continued support following the oil-spill event. "While the oil has disappeared from the surface, the future is uncertain in terms of environmental impacts and having Spectrum Resort's ongoing support of the Friends and refuge is of vital importance," Hirsche said of the donation.Ralph Gilges, president of the Friends of the Bon Secour National Wildlife Refuge Association, was also on hand for the presentation. "This is a terrific cause," he said. "A large portion of what we do is making sure the habitat stays in its natural condition, especially with the problem in the Gulf."Gilges said some of the funds donated may be used to plant new sea oats.Those interested in purchasing a shirt can do so at The Village Mercantile at The Beach Club in Gulf Shores or at Sirena del Sol Spa at Turquoise Place in Orange Beach. Call The Mercantile at (251) 224-3660 or log on to www.beachclubal.com and click "Shop Online." Or, call the spa at (251) 970-7250. Embedded in the sea turtle, Booth included much of the marine and wildlife that calls the Alabama Gulf Coast home. There is a marlin, sea gull, shrimp, dolphin and more in the design.  The shirts are $20 for regular cotton tees and $22 for garment-washed tees. In addition to raising funds for the Refuge, the company has also served the coast in other capacities during the oil-spill event in an effort to promote the area and make potential guests feel comfortable with their decision to vacation along Alabama's Gulf Coast. Spectrum Resorts served as the official lodging partner for Huka Entertainment during the "Jimmy Buffett and Friends Live on the Gulf Coast" concert, donating 20 rooms to the musicians and others associated with the concert. Spectrum Resorts and was also the first rental-management agency to relax its policies with a Paradise Pledge/pay-upon-arrival system, which offers a 100-percent vacation guarantee, for which the company was commended by Herb Malone, president and CEO of the Alabama Gulf Coast Convention and Visitor's Bureau."Spectrum Resorts would like to take this opportunity to thank Jimmy Buffett, Roddie Romero and the Hub City All Stars, Fess Security, HUKA Entertainment, our local CVB and all of those involved for supporting our area with such a great concert event," Williams said. "We would further like to thank Nick Saban, who visited the area several weeks ago, as well as the Mobile Press Register, Gulf Coast Newspapers, Fox 10 News, WKPEL 95.5 in Acadia, Louisiana, WAPI 100 in Birmingham, Ala. and all of the media who have worked very hard to get the truth out about Alabama's Gulf Coast and spread the word that our beaches are still beautiful, the swimming advisory has been lifted and our area is open for business.  We would like to thank all of our guests who stood by us this summer and supported Alabama's Gulf Coast."SOURCE  Spectrum Resorts
		


	
    </content>
</doc>