<doc>
<title>Utility Scale Wind Turbine Markets Anticipated to Reach $130 ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... The visibility into the oil drilling companies brought by the BP oil spill has had what promises to be a long term impact on the market. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  ROCKVILLE, MD, Aug 17 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
MarketResearch.com has announced the addition of Wintergreen Research's
new report "Utility Scale Wind Turbines Market Shares, Strategies, and
Forecasts, Worldwide, 2010 to 2016" to their collection of Energy market
reports. For more information, visit
http://www.marketresearch.com/product/display.asp?ProductID=2749803

    Worldwide markets are poised to achieve significant growth as wind
electricity generation has reached cost parity with fossil fuels and
demand for more electricity generation is coming with the increased use
of electric vehicles.

    According to Susan Eustis, the lead author of the study, "the use of
utility scale wind generators represents an emerging high growth market.
New technologies have increased the efficiency of wind based electricity
generation and of systems installations both onshore and off shore. The
evolution of hydrogen campus fuel cell systems will introduce electricity
storage that makes the wind generation systems even more cost efficient.
Thin film battery storage of electricity in the electric vehicles and in
hardened cases on the ground will increase the efficiency and consistency
of wind generated electricity delivery."

    The wind turbine renewable energy accounted for 62% (17 GW) of the new
electricity generation capacity installed in the European Union (EU) in
2009. Rural economic development has had a focus on wind generated
electricity. Wind turbines contribute to energy price stability. Wind
generated energy helps address global climate change.

    Every energy technology is supported by federal governments. Wind energy
is gaining increasing recognition that a higher proportion of subsidies
are needed as leaders begin to realize the need for a sustainable energy
policy. The visibility into the oil drilling companies brought by the BP
oil spill has had what promises to be a long term impact on the market.

    The availability of hydrogen storage and electricity generation in the
form of stationary fuel cells that work in campus and substation
environments is going to impact wind generated electricity. Hydrogen
turns out to be a good way to store excess electricity generated by wind.

    The U.S. the government accountability office (GAO) looked at federal
incentives for electricity between Fiscal Year (FY) 2002 and FY 2007 and
noticed that tax expenditures largely go to fossil fuels. About $13.7
billion was provided to fossil fuels and $2.8 billion to renewables. With
the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, this policy ratio is likely to
change, tilting more toward renewable energy. Wind is the most
economically viable of the renewable energy sources.

    Wind power systems have proved that they can readily be accommodated into
existing fossil fuel and nuclear electric system operations reliably and
economically. Wind Turbines are achieving combination with natural gas
systems to create a hybrid unit that operates continuously. The natural
gas generator uses the wind turbines grid systems to create an
efficiently operating unit. Similar designs are evolving as hybrid wind
turbines that operate in combination with solar energy systems.

    Electric vehicles provide a significant market thrust to the need for
wind generated electricity. Electric vehicles will depend on curbside and
garage based metered delivery of electricity. Electricity generated from
renewable sources will replace gasoline in the future.

    Utility scale wind turbine markets at $35.6 billion in 2009 are
anticipated to reach $130 billion by 2016. The enormous size of the
existing market gives a significant market thrust going forward, because
the major vendors and their customers have access to capital markets.
This access is needed to achieve the significant growth that will be
achieved as wind and solar energy replace the fossil fuel industry. Only
natural gas will compete with the renewable sources of energy for
utilities as new capacity is put in place and aging existing facilities
are retired, to be replaced with more modern facilities. 

    For more information, visit
http://www.marketresearch.com/product/display.asp?ProductID=2749803

    

Contact:
Veronica Franco
MarketResearch.com
vfranco@marketresearch.com
240.747.3016

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>