<doc>
<title>Wescorp Defines Strategy for Gulf of Mexico Spill Remediation and ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-11</date>
<snippet>... including the oil & gas and marine industries, today further defined its strategy to enter the market to provide services for the oil spill recovery efforts in ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
CALGARY, Alberta--(Business Wire)--
Wescorp Energy Inc. (OTCBB: WSCE), a clean water technology company focused on
implementing its low-cost solutions into several markets including the oil & gas
and marine industries, today further defined its strategy to enter the market to
provide services for the oil spill recovery efforts in the Gulf of Mexico.
Management is in active discussions with contractors and government agencies
involved in the Gulf clean-up efforts to attempt to obtain the right opportunity
for Wescorp to introduce its H2Omaxx water remediation technology in support of
the oil spill recovery efforts. 

"Our goal is to locate a right opportunity for Wescorp`s H2Omaxx technology to
be deployed in a marine environment in order to demonstrate its unusually cost
effective and efficient oil/water separation," states Robert G. Power, Executive
Chairman of Wescorp. "We made a conscious decision to not jump into this new
area until we clearly understood the issues and challenges related to the Gulf
spill and clean up efforts. As a result, Wescorp has been actively examining and
receiving feedback about the actual technology challenges and opportunities for
on- and off-shore oil/water separation. 

"In September, we expect to achieve two important milestones. We anticipate
receiving the independent test data from the ongoing commercial H2Omaxx
operation from the New Sarepta, Alberta site. That same month, we also look
forward to taking delivery of our first larger capacity 10,000 barrel-a-day
treatment unit. At that point, we believe Wescorp will be well positioned to
deploy a land-based H2Omaxx unit for use in the Gulf of Mexico clean-up. 

"It is important to recognize that the clean-up will go on for many months, and
possibly years. We want to ensure that our technology works properly for the
specific Gulf circumstances, and we have the confidence that H2Omaxx will then
prove itself in the field. Few of the new technologies that have been deployed
to date in the initial clean-up operations have achieved any new efficiencies.
Our objective is to set new performance standards," Power said. 

Richard Dalati, VP Gulf of Mexico and International Business, added, "Wescorp
has been actively pursuing opportunities for both on-shore and off-shore oil
spill recovery applications in the Gulf of Mexico. At the same time, we are also
pursuing opportunities related to off-shore production water remediation
applications. H2Omaxx technology is economically competitive and environmentally
benign, as it does not use any chemicals. Operationally, the unit is simple to
use, and can quickly and efficiently process high volumes of contaminated water.


"Looking ahead, we believe, as do other leaders in the industry, that the
off-shore oil and gas industry will come under much stricter regulatory
requirements for oil/water separation and for emergency response to oil spills.
Our H2Omaxx technology provides a unique solution for both of these regulatory
objectives. We expect Wescorp to play an active role and be part of the
discussion going forward in terms of the technologies and standards that will
likely be adopted to meet the new regulatory requirements. 

"Equally important," Dalati continued, "Wescorp has now designed a unit to
operate in a variety of marine environments - at sea, on a drilling rig, or on a
ship. There is presently no technology that operates in a large sea swell
(heave) environment under a wide variety of conditions. We expect testing will
prove that H2Omaxx will operate effectively at sea, and the technology will be
in demand by the marine industry because of its low cost, small footprint and
light weight specifications," concluded Dalati. 

H2Omaxx Technology

H2Omaxx has been proven to be a safe, effective, economical and environmentally
friendly process for cleaning and separating oil and solids from water. Using
Wescorp`s nano-aeration technology, independent test results have shown the
H2Omaxx technology to reduce the oil content in produced water to less than 10
parts per million without the use of chemicals, filters or heat. 

Use of H2Omaxx provides important cost benefits to the operator when compared
with the traditional multi-technology approach to remediate water. H2Omaxx can
lower both the operator`s capital costs and operating costs significantly. In
addition, new revenues are created by the capture of barrels of oil that would
otherwise be disposed. 

Land-Based or Sea-Based Solution

H2Omaxx technology has been designed to produce the H2Omaxx unit in a variety of
sizes, including a mobile unit and commercial units (2,500, 10,000 and 65,000
barrels-per-day). H2Omaxx solutions address a wide range of oil/water separation
needs: 

On-Shore Production Operations

The highly mobile H2Omaxx unit can be rapidly transported to facilities for
short- or long-term commercial operations. The 10,000 barrel-per-day unit has
its own storage, separation and containment tanks, micro-aeration generators and
firmware and computer automation technology to allow water remediation with
minimal human supervision. Wescorp expects to take delivery of its first
manufactured 10,000 barrel-per-day unit in September. 

Large Volume/Sea Water Emergency Response

A large volume skid-mounted unit has been designed to clean up to 65,000 barrels
or 2.8 million gallons of oily seawater per day. Multiple units could be coupled
together to meet the demands required in the Gulf disaster. The H2Omaxx
oil/seawater separation technology is designed to remediate oily water to a
standard to meet the Environmental Protection Agency`s limits of 29 parts per
million (ppm) monthly average - 42 ppm maximum daily "oil and grease" content.
This unit has been designed to operate either on land or on the sea. Wescorp
will market a large scale emergency response unit as part of its ongoing
marketing efforts to marine and emergency response customers. Wescorp will seek
to secure a customer for this type of unit before commissioning its
construction. 

Off-Shore Oil & Gas Production

Wescorp believes that a compact skid-mounted unit can be used to remediate
produced water from an off-shore production platform to a level that should
allow it to be discharged overboard. The unit would provide a smaller footprint
(less weight, less size and less energy requirements) than the multiple pieces
of equipment traditionally used for offshore platforms. Wescorp also intends to
market a compact skid-mounted unit as part of its ongoing sales efforts. 

Key operating advantages for the off-shore industry are expected to include:

* High Throughput / Low Retention: The low retention time required by H2Omaxx
technology will greatly reduce the weight of water in process relative to the
throughput. 
* Wide Input Tolerances: Many other technologies only perform at peak levels
within a narrow range of input flow rates and/or the percentage of hydrocarbons
in the input solution. These operationally sensitive technologies require
preconditioning or waste storage containers to manage the input specifications.
This operation of the H2Omaxx unit will not require preconditioning and storage,
thus decreasing overall treatment system cost, weight and space requirements.

Because of these traditional technology challenges, many production platforms
choose instead to ship produced water to on-shore processing facilities, thereby
significantly increasing costs and environmental operating risks. These costs
and risks will be mitigated with the use of H2Omaxx. 

About Wescorp

Wescorp (www.wescorpenergy.com) is a clean water technology company focused on
implementing its superior yet low-cost solutions into the oil and gas production
industry. 

Safe Harbor Statement

Any statements contained herein that are not historical facts may be
forward-looking statements, and involve risks and uncertainties. Potential
factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or
implied by such statements. Information on the potential factors that could
affect the Company's actual results of operations is included in its filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks may be further
discussed in periodic reports and registration statements to be filed by the
Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
future.

Investor Relations Contact:
Bibicoff + MacInnis, Inc.
Terri MacInnis, Dir. of Investor Relations
818-379-8500
terri@bibimac.com

Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>