<doc>
<title>American International Industries, Inc. (AMIN) Announces the ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-11</date>
<snippet>... Patent Applications That Claim Various Methods and Assemblies for Containing an Oil and/or Gas Spill, Such as the Deepwater Horizon (BP) Oil Spill HOUSTON and ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
American International Industries, Inc. (AMIN) Announces the Filing of Three
Additional Patent Applications That Claim Various Methods and Assemblies for
Containing an Oil and/or Gas Spill, Such as the Deepwater Horizon (BP) Oil Spill

HOUSTON and KEMAH, Texas, Aug. 11, 2010 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- American
International Industries, Inc. (Nasdaq:AMIN) today announced that three
additional U.S. patent applications pertaining to the containment of undersea
oil and/or gas spills have been filed with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office (USPTO). All of these patent applications are assigned to
Subsea Oil Technologies, Inc. ("Subsea"), a company that is 50% owned by AMIN. 
The prosecution of these patent applications at the USPTO has been entrusted to
the law firm of Volpe and Koenig, P.C., which is located in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Daniel Dror, AMIN's Chairman and CEO, stated, "As we indicated in our July 20,
2010 press release, Subsea has established an on-going program to build an
intellectual property (IP) portfolio of patent applications directed towards
expediting the containment of undersea oil and/or gas spills, at least until a
relief well can be drilled. As we begin to explore various market and licensing
opportunities, we will continue to expand and enhance the value of this IP
portfolio."

1- U.S. Patent Application No. 12/840,907 entitled "Contained Top Kill Method
and Apparatus for Entombing a Defective Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack to Stop an
Oil and/or Gas Spill," was filed on July 21, 2010. The claims of this
application are directed towards a unique containment assembly that enables
reinforcement material (e.g., cement) to be introduced into a hollow wall of the
containment assembly, as well as into a hollow inner cavity that circumvents a
defective BOP stack, to stop an oil and/or gas spill.

2- U.S. Patent Application No. 12/842,475 entitled "Method and Apparatus for
Controlling a Valve Used to Contain Oil and/or Gas Spill Spewing from a
Defective Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack Located on an Ocean Floor," was filed on
July 23, 2010. The claims of this application are directed towards the control
of a valve used on a specially designed containment assembly to contain oil
and/or gas spewing from a defective BOP stack. The valve may be automatically
opened when the pressure within the containment assembly reaches or exceeds a
predetermined threshold, or when it is desired to allow the oil and/or gas to
rise to a containment vessel floating on the ocean surface.

3- U.S. Patent Application No. 12/847,326 entitled "Method and Apparatus for
Fastening a Blowout Preventer (BOP) Stack Containment Assembly to an Ocean
Floor," was filed on July 30, 2010.  The claims of this application are directed
towards a BOP stack containment assembly that is fastened and sealed to an ocean
floor by utilizing a self-fastening mechanism.

Mr. Dror further stated, "Because we do not exceed 20 total claims and 3
independent claims in each of these applications, we may consider filing
Petitions to Make Special under the Green Technology Pilot Program at the USPTO
which, if approved, would expedite the examination process.  One requirement for
approval is that the claims must be directed to a single invention that
materially enhances the quality of the environment. We believe that each of
these patent applications would meet this requirement."

American International Industries, Inc. is a diversified holding company, with a
business model similar to General Electric, Tyco International, and Berkshire
Hathaway. The Company has holdings in Industry, Finance and Oil & Gas, and has a
significant Real Estate portfolio, all in Houston, TX and its surrounding areas.
  The vision of the Company is to further develop holdings in its core
industries and plans to expand its interests in the energy sector through
acquisition of existing companies, applying the financial resources and
management expertise to foster the growth and profitability of the acquired
businesses. The holding company serves as a financial and professional partner
to the management of the subsidiaries. The role of the holding company is to
improve each subsidiary's access to capital, achieve economies of scale by
consolidating administrative functions, and utilize the financial and management
expertise of corporate personnel across all units. The Company is continuing to
work with management of the subsidiary companies to improve revenues, operations
and profitability.

Forward-Looking Statements:

This press release may contain forward-looking statements, including information
about management's view of the Company's future expectations, plans and
prospects, within the safe harbor provisions under The Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). In particular, when used in the
preceding discussion, the words "believes," "expects," "intends," "plans,"
"anticipates," or "may," and similar conditional expressions are intended to
identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act, and are
subject to the safe harbor created by the Act. Any statements made in this news
release other than those of historical fact, about an action, event or
development, are forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those that we may anticipate in each of our
segments reflected by our subsidiaries' operations include, among others:,
continued value of our real estate portfolio; the strength of the real estate
market in Houston, Texas as a whole; the ability to expand its interests in the
energy sector; increased levels of competition; the dependence upon financing,
the rules of regulatory authorities and risks associated with any potential
acquisitions. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors, which may cause the results of the Company, its divisions and
concepts to be materially different than those expressed or implied in such
statements. These risk factors and others are included from time to time in
documents the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
including but not limited to, its Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks. Other
unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on the
Company's future results. The forward-looking statements included in this press
release are made only as of the date hereof. The Company cannot guarantee future
results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you
should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Finally,
the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements after the date
of this release, except as required by law, and also takes no obligation to
update or correct information prepared by third parties that are not paid for by
the Company.

CONTACT:  American International Industries, Inc.
          Investor Relations:  
          Rebekah Ruthstrom 
          281-334-9479 
          amin@americanii.com



	
    </content>
</doc>