<doc>
<title>Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc. Announces Acquisition of Legacy Rock ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... of using the 300,000 tons of calcium carbonate on property owned by Legacy Rock that is ready to be shipped to the Gulf area to clean up the oil spill. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  LAS VEGAS, NV, Aug 17 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: TWDL), today announced that it
has acquired full ownership of Legacy Rock Company, a diversified mineral
and rock mining company that had gross sales of over $1 Million last
year, and over $300,000 in the quarter ending June 30, 2010. All future
sales and profits will be credited to the account of TWDL. The purchase
was made through a transfer of stock as well as an undisclosed amount of
cash paid to the owners of Legacy Rock Co.

    The diversified resources being mined and sold through Legacy Rock
include sand and gravel for highways throughout the area, including the
beltway around Las Vegas, as well as decorative rocks for landscaping and
home exteriors in the arid southwest region where the property is
located. Their clients include Lowe's, Walmart and Star Nurseries.

    Plans are also underway to bottle and market water from a natural spring
located on property owned by the Whipple family in Logandale, Nevada.
This spring produces approximately 100 million gallons of water a year.
Through the acquisition, TWDL will have rights to utilize all of the
water from this source. Since it is on privately owned land which is
patent protected, it is therefore not subject to being managed by the
Bureau of Land Management.

    Representatives of TWDL are currently negotiating with decision makers at
Meadow Gold, Nestle, and are in contact with Crystal Geyser to wholesale
water to them. Due to the enormous quantity of water flowing from the
spring, the Company has plans underway to also private label the water
and build their own bottling company on the property. 

    Of greatest current significance is the prospect of using the 300,000
tons of calcium carbonate on property owned by Legacy Rock that is ready
to be shipped to the Gulf area to clean up the oil spill. In contrast to
other products that have been tested, and in some cases, used; calcium
carbonate can be easily acclimated within the environment on the floor of
the ocean. This is because it is the main component of shells of marine
organisms, snails, pearls and other naturally occurring substances found
there.(1)

    This week the Company is shipping a pallet of calcium carbonate to New
Orleans, Louisiana where tests will be done to illustrate the
effectiveness of this natural product. The Mayor of New Orleans, as well
as parish dignitaries, are expected to be present to view the testing.
The company will also send a film crew to make a mini-documentary to
witness tests in the marshes where the oil spill has done devastating
damage. Watch for video of the tests which should be available on U-Tube
in the near future.

    1 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calcium_carbonate Beverage Digest, Volume
54, No.7, March 30, 2009

    Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
 This press release
contains statements, which may constitute "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Those statements include statements regarding the
intent, belief or current expectations of Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc.
and members of its management as well as the assumptions on which such
statements are based. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may differ
materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. 

    

Media and Investor Relations Contact:
Al Roensch
Phone: (415) 342-1779
Email: aroensch@aol.com 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>