<doc>
<title>European shares set to drop after Fed</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-11</date>
<snippet>... to three days BP Plc's <BP.L> <BP.N> work on a relief well, the final step in permanently killing the source of the world's worst offshore oil spill, the top ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
PARIS (Reuters) - European stock index futures signaled losses on European bourses on Wednesday, following the Federal Reserve's more pessimistic assessment of the economy and measures that failed to dissipate economic fears.

By 2:28 a.m. ET, futures for the STOXX Europe 50, for Germany's DAX and for France's CAC were down around 0.8 percent, while German Bund futures reached a record high, mirroring a rally in U.S. Treasuries spurred by the Fed's move to renew its purchases of government debt.The 10-year bund yield hit an all time low of 2.477 pct.In a post-meeting statement on Tuesday, the Fed's Open Market Committee said it would begin funneling proceeds from maturing mortgage bonds into longer-term government debt to keep borrowing costs low, but the plan got a lukewarm response from U.S. stocks, suggesting investors didn't believe the Fed's move would have much immediate impact."The move was not the traditional form of QE that many had expected and is instead being branded as QE lite," CMC Markets analyst James Hughes wrote in a note.In Asia, investors seemed relieved by fresh data from China, which confirmed its economic growth was moderating but showed no signs of hard landing risks. But Japan's Nikkei sharply fell, hurt by the yen's strength against the dollar.The FTSEurofirst 300 .FTEU3 index lost 0.8 percent to 1,062.46 points on Tuesday, while the Euro STOXX 50 .STOXX50E dropped 0.9 percent to 2,800.02 points, retreating below the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of a fall from an April high to a May low, but managed to stay above its 200-day moving average, at 2,796.36.The next key support level is at 2,737.62, the 50 percent retracement of the slide from the April high to the May low.COMPANY NEWS:ING (ING.AS)The Dutch bancassurer easily beat second-quarter estimates on Wednesday, as strength in its retail banking business offset huge market-driven losses in its U.S. insurance business. For details, see: (ING.AS)BP (BP.L)An approaching storm in the Gulf of Mexico will delay by two to three days BP Plc's (BP.L) (BP.N) work on a relief well, the final step in permanently killing the source of the world's worst offshore oil spill, the top U.S. spill official said on Tuesday.NESTLE (NESN.VX)The global food giant struck a note of confidence for the rest of the year after strong demand for its brands in emerging markets boosted its sales in the first half.ADECCO (ADEN.VX)Adecco (ADEN.VX) said the recovery of the global economy was encouraging industrial companies to take on temporary hires, helping it to a forecast-beating quarterly profit.BARCLAYS (BARC.L)The bank's investment banking unit Barclays Capital is planning to cut as many as several hundred jobs, the Financial Times said, quoting a source close to the bank, adding the cuts could be announced as soon as Wednesday follow a sharp fall in Q2 market activity.NOBEL BIOCARE(NOBN.VX)Swiss dental implant maker Nobel Biocare(NOBN.VX) said demand for treatments could pick up, adding to signs the beleaguered market is returning to growth. For related news, click on NOBN.VX-LEN-RTRSKLOECKNER &amp; CO (KCOGn.DE)Europe's biggest independent steel trader, raised its profit margin forecast for this year after recovery in the automotive and engineering sectors boosted second-quarter operating profit. For details, see: KCOGn.DE-LEN-RTRSENEL (ENEI.MI)Sovereign funds and private equity are in contact with the utility about taking a stake in its renewable unit Enel Green Power or guiding the price for the unit's IPO, a source close to the operation said on Tuesday. For details, see: (ENEI.MI)SIEMENS (SIEGn.DE)The company will build wind turbines to supply as much as 600 megawatts (MW) of energy for the Canadian province of Ontario under an agreement reached with Samsung C&amp;T (000830.KS).EADS (EAD.PA)The CEO of the European aerospace and defense company's North American operations survived a plane crash in which former U.S. Senator Ted Stevens and four others died, the company said in a statement. For details, see:(Reporting by Blaise Robinson)


	
    </content>
</doc>