<doc>
<title>UPDATE 4-New Orleans judge to oversee oil spill cases</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-10</date>
<snippet>... YORK/WILMINGTON, Del, Aug 10 - A New Orleans federal judge will oversee several hundred civil lawsuits stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a decision ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 * Judge Carl Barbier chosen by special judicial panel

 * Houston judge to oversee securities lawsuits against BP * Barbier to decide which laws should be applied in cases
 (Recasts first paragraph; edits to conform) By Martha Graybow and Tom Hals NEW YORK/WILMINGTON, Del, Aug 10 (Reuters) - A New Orleans
federal judge will oversee several hundred civil lawsuits
stemming from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, a decision that was
welcomed by plaintiffs' attorneys who want the cases to be
heard in a place hard hit by the disaster. U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier, a 12-year veteran of the
federal bench and a New Orleans native, will supervise personal
injury and other cases filed against BP Plc (BP.L) and other
corporate defendants, a special judicial panel wrote in an
order on Tuesday. Many attorneys who represent injured oil rig workers,
commercial fishermen and property owners had hoped the lawsuits
would be centralized in New Orleans, where tourism has suffered
and fishing bans have dry-docked shrimping boats in the spill's
aftermath. BP had argued that Houston, where it has its U.S.
headquarters, was the best venue. "Without discounting the spill's effects on other states,
if there is a geographic and psychological 'center of gravity'
in this docket, then the Eastern District of Louisiana is
closest to it," the panel wrote in its order. Barbier will be in charge of issues that could decide the
future of spill-related lawsuits, such as which laws should be
applied. The cases are in their earliest stages. The judge has deep roots in the Gulf Coast. He was born in
New Orleans in 1944, attended Southeastern Louisiana University
and Loyola University New Orleans School of Law. He was a
lawyer in private practice for many years in New Orleans before
President Clinton tapped him for the federal bench in 1998. Barbier handled a variety of cases stemming from Hurricane
Katrina, including the first federal trial in Louisiana in 2007
brought by policyholders against State Farm Insurance over
damage from the 2005 hurricane. BP wanted the spill cases to be heard by a federal judge in
Houston. But only securities lawsuits against BP by
stockholders angered by its steep share declines will be
combined in Houston, the panel decided. Houston federal judge
Keith Ellison will oversee those cases. The seven-judge panel, known as the U.S. Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation, held a hearing in late July in Boise,
Idaho, to figure out how to stitch together hundreds of
spill-related lawsuits. Many plaintiffs' lawyers argued that New Orleans was the
best venue, although others wanted locales, including
Mississippi and Florida. Some forecast the merged cases would
be sent to Barbier, who already had been assigned to at least
40 cases stemming from the Deepwater Horizon spill. "I think he will be a great judge," said Thomas Sims of the
law firm Baron and Budd, which argued for Barbier to oversee
the consolidated cases. He said Barbier was someone "who knows how to work with
plaintiffs and defendants to get the case moving forward with
minimal court involvement." He cited a recent hearing to force BP to preserve oil
samples as evidence. Barbier denied the motion, but got both
sides to collaborate on a solution. Barbier said in June he sold his holdings of bonds issued
by companies involved in the spill to avoid any appearance of
conflicts. The judicial panel said an appeals court recently denied a
petition by some defendants that Barbier be recused from spill
cases. Judges in multidistrict lawsuits hold much power, presiding
over how various pretrial processes such as discovery and
depositions of witnesses are handled. Eventually, Barbier is supposed to return the cases to the
districts in which they were filed for trial, but in practice
judges in multidistrict lawsuits often help forge broad
settlements, as happened in the Vioxx product liability cases
against drugmaker Merck &amp; Co Inc (MRK.N).
  (Reporting by Martha Graybow in New York and Tom Hals in
Wilmington; editing by Robert MacMillan and Andre Grenon)





			Stocks
			Bonds News
			Bonds
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>