<doc>
<title>FACTBOX-Liabilities BP faces from Gulf oil spill</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-10</date>
<snippet>... BP has already set up a $20 billion escrow fund to pay claims from individuals and businesses affected by the oil spill. The fund ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 By Jeremy Pelofsky

WASHINGTON Aug 10 (Reuters) - Now that BP Plc's
(BP.L)(BP.N) ruptured oil well has been cut off with concrete,
the focus will turn to restoring the U.S. Gulf Coast and the
mountain of legal issues the company will face.  Here are some
of the liabilities BP may face. U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATION: * The Justice Department is investigating the spill on a
number of fronts, including criminal and civil violations of
environmental laws that could lead to billions of dollars in
fines. For every barrel of oil that was spilled into the Gulf of
Mexico -- the latest estimate is 4.1 million -- there could be
a fine of $4,300 per barrel if gross negligence is found. That
would equal a fine of $17.63 billion. If no gross negligence is
found, the fine is up to $1,100 per barrel, or $4.5 billion. There also could be additional fines for any harm to
animals protected by the Endangered Species Act and the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, among other environmental laws. So far more than 1,800 visibly oiled birds have been
collected alive and more than 1,700 visibly oiled birds found
dead. Additionally, more than 400 sea turtles have been found
alive with visible oil and 17 dead. Further, the Justice Department could bring additional
criminal charges if investigators find anyone had engaged in
obstruction of justice or made false statements. This probe is not limited to BP, and could ensnare other
companies that were part of the well drilling operations,
including drill operator Transocean Ltd (RIG.N) and Halliburton
Co (HAL.N) which did cement work. U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PROBE: The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has begun a
preliminary probe into BP on two key matters. Investigators are
examining whether people may have illegally profited from
trading on nonpublic information at BP in the months since the
disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. They are also poring over the company's securities filings
to see if BP properly disclosed information on risks related to
its deepwater oil operations in the Gulf of Mexico. If any violations are found, the SEC can seek the return of
ill-gotten gains as well as penalties and levy fines for
failing to adequately disclose risks to shareholders. PRIVATE LAWSUITS MOUNT: BP has been the target so far of more than 300 lawsuits
from private entities or individuals, ranging from fishermen
barred from trolling the Gulf waters for their catches while
oil spewed from the ruptured well to shareholders angry at the
massive losses the company's stock endured. They also include class action lawsuits as well as personal
injury and wrongful death lawsuits. Eleven workers on the
Transocean rig died after the well explosion. At one point after the April 20 incident BP shares traded
in the United States had lost 55 percent of their value. They
have since recovered some ground with the well capped and
plugged, but the stock is still down 31 percent from when the
well ruptured. A federal judicial panel is expected to decide soon whether
to consolidate many of the private lawsuits, filed in several
states, and where to hear them. ESCROW FUND, OTHER COMMITMENTS TAKE SHAPE: BP has already set up a $20 billion escrow fund to pay
claims from individuals and businesses affected by the oil
spill. The fund will be administered by Kenneth Feinberg who
oversaw other significant compensation funds. Government entities will make their claims directly to BP. BP has agreed to contribute $5 billion for each of the next
four years and has set aside the funds. The company included
the full $20 billion in its most recent income statement, while
a large portion of the $32.2 billion charge the company took in
the second quarter of 2010 related to the oil spill. BP made a $3 billion deposit on the escrow fund on Aug 9. In addition to that money, BP has allocated $100 million to
support unemployed oil workers, sidelined as the Obama
administration issued a moratorium that halted most exploratory
deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. The company has also committed $500 million for a
decade-long initiative in the Gulf aimed at improving the
understanding of the effects of oil and gas pollution and ways
to mitigate it. MONEY PAID TO DATE: BP said on Aug. 5 that it has paid out $303 million in
claims to more than 40,000 individuals and businesses affected
by the oil spill in the Gulf, more than 10 percent of that in
the first five days of August. Obama administration officials have said repeatedly no
taxpayer money will be spent on the oil spill cleanup and
recovery efforts, and so far the administration has sent bills
totaling $221 million to BP and other responsible parties. EFFORTS TO RECOVER FUNDS FROM PARTNERS: Part of the litigation that will likely ensue now that no
more oil is flowing from the Macondo well is over whether the
Obama administration finds others are also responsible for the
massive spill. If there is more than one responsible party
based on the findings of multiple investigations, more could be
subject to fines and penalties. BP has also started trying to recover some of the money it
has spent on the cleanup and recovery efforts from its partners
who helped drill the well and/or the well's two co-owners,
Anadarko Petroleum Corp (APC.N) and Mitsui &amp; Co Ltd (8031.T). Anadarko has been billed $1.2 billion for its share of the
cleanup by BP but the company has withheld payments so far.
Mitsui has also been billed $480 million, but it has not yet
decided whether it will pay. That all will likely be subject to lengthy litigation and
possibly negotiations that could take years.
 (Editing by Jerry Norton)





			Stocks
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>