<doc>
<title>Greenfield Advisors, LLC Launches New Service That Provides ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... real estate valuation and advisory services, launches a new service today that will allow property owners harmed by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill to obtain a ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Property Owners Can Obtain Real Estate Appraisals for BP Claims Through Newly
Launched Website At www.gulfspillvaluations.com
SEATTLE--(Business Wire)--
Greenfield Advisors, LLC, a company specializing in complex real estate
valuation and advisory services, launches a new service today that will allow
property owners harmed by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill to obtain a report
detailing the impact to their property value. The website,
www.gulfspillvaluations.com, allows users to identify their parcel of land and
get a report generated instantaneously that provides an actual "amount of
diminution," or decrease in value, and explains the methods used. The report can
then be filed as supporting material with their claim documents to justify a
demand for compensation due to the BP oil spill.

"This is the same comprehensive analytical work we do for million- and even
billion-dollar litigation projects," explained Dr. John Kilpatrick, CEO of
Greenfield Advisors. "There are normally very few individual property owners
whose situations justify hiring us, but the economies of scale in this
circumstance make it possible to offer our expertise to anyone harmed by the BP
oil spill."

Starting with tax assessor records, Greenfield Advisors calculates the effects
of historical market trends since the date of assessment as well as any other
extenuating circumstances to arrive at a "pre-incident" valuation for the given
parcel. They then determine the decrease in value caused by the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill using the same techniques they applied successfully in events
such as the Exxon Valdez oil spill and Hurricane Katrina.

"According to BP`s own statements 145,000 claims have been filed to date," said
Dr. Kilpatrick. "This service will help expedite the process for many, many
people to help determine their losses and take the necessary steps towards
appropriate compensation."

It is estimated that more than 1 million parcels have been impacted in 44
counties in the Gulf of Mexico region including Alabama, Florida, Louisiana,
Mississippi, and Texas. Property owners who believe they have cause to file a
claim are advised to do so by November 15, 2010 after which time the rules for
filing may change.

About Greenfield Advisors

Greenfield Advisors is a 34-year-old financial services firm specializing in
complex real estate problem solving. Best known for its work in high-profile
litigation and trophy property valuation, Greenfield addresses a variety of real
estate-related projects, including feasibility studies, market research,
valuation, business plans, wealth-management and private-equity advisory
services, brokerage, and fund raising. For additional information, contact: John
Casker, jcasker@greenfieldadvisors.com, or via phone 206-623-2935.

GreenRubino
Hamilton McCulloh, 206-957-4260
hamiltonm@greenrubino.com

Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>