<doc>
<title>McAfee, Inc. Q2 Threat Report Reveals Malware at All Time High ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-10</date>
<snippet>... strategy." Attackers leveraged major events such as the World Cup and Middle East conflicts to poison Internet searches, however the BP oil spill in the Gulf ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
World Cup Scams, Resurrected Botnets and USB Vulnerabilities Top Threats in Q2
SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(Business Wire)--
McAfee, Inc. (NYSE:MFE) today unveiled its McAfee Threats Report: Second Quarter
2010, which uncovered that malware has reached its highest levels, making the
first six months of 2010 the most active half-year ever for total malware
production. At the same time, spam leveled out with only 2.5 percent growth from
Q1 2010. 

Malware continued to soar in Q2 2010, as there were 10 million new pieces
cataloged in the first half of this year. Consistent with last quarter, threats
on portable storage devices took the lead for the most popular malware, followed
by fake anti-virus software and social media specific malware. With
approximately 55,000 new pieces of malware that appear everyday, globally
AutoRun malware and password-stealing Trojans round out the Top Two malware
threats. 

After reaching its highest point in Q3 2009, with nearly 175 billion messages
per day spam rates have hit a plateau. Cybercriminals took advantage of
anticipation on and hype of the FIFA World Cup in South Africa, and used various
methods to promote scams and search-engine "poisoning." Globally, the most
popular types of spam varied from country to country with some interesting
findings. For instance, delivery status notifications, or non-delivery receipt
spam, were the most popular in United States, Italy, Spain, China, Great
Britain, Brazil, Germany and Australia. Malware spam, or anything that comes
with a virus or Trojan attachment urging you to visit an infected website, was
the most popular in Colombia, India, South Korea, Russia and Vietnam. Argentina
had the most variety in spam, with 16 different topic areas, ranging from drugs
to lonely women to diplomas. Italy came in with the least variety, with just six
types of spam. 

"Our latest threat report depicts that malware has been on a steady incline in
the first half of 2010," said Mike Gallagher, senior vice president and chief
technology officer of Global Threat Intelligence for McAfee. "It`s also obvious
that cybercriminals are becoming more in tune with what the general public is
passionate about from a technology perspective and using it to lure unsuspecting
victims. These findings indicate that not only should cybercrime education be
more widespread, but that security organizations should move from a reactive to
a predictive security strategy." 

Attackers leveraged major events such as the World Cup and Middle East conflicts
to poison Internet searches, however the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was
surprisingly absent from the Top 20 toxic search terms. Additionally, McAfee
Labs saw a resurrection of two "dead" botnets. Storm Worm and Kraken, once
considered to be among the biggest botnets on the planet, are again on the rise.


For a full copy of the Q2 2010 Threats Report, please visit:
http://www.mcafee.com/us/local_content/reports/q22010_threats_report_en.pdf

About McAfee, Inc.

McAfee, Inc., headquartered in Santa Clara, California, is the world's largest
dedicated security technology company. McAfee is committed to relentlessly
tackling the world's toughest security challenges. The company delivers
proactive and proven solutions and services that help secure systems and
networks around the world, allowing users to safely connect to the Internet,
browse, and shop the web more securely. Backed by an award-winning research
team, McAfee creates innovative products that empower home users, businesses,
the public sector, and service providers by enabling them to prove compliance
with regulations, protect data, prevent disruptions, identify vulnerabilities,
and continuously monitor and improve their security. http://www.mcafee.com

NOTE: McAfee, McAfee Labs and Global Threat Intelligence are registered
trademarks or trademarks of McAfee, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United
States and other countries. Other marks and brands may be claimed as the
property of others. © 2010 McAfee, Inc. All rights reserved.

McAfee, Inc.
Ally Zwahlen, 925-207-4573
Ally_zwahlen@mcafee.com
or
Red Consultancy
Heather Edell, 415-618-8814
Heather.edell@redconsultancy.com

Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>