<doc>
<title>PRESS DIGEST - British business - Aug 17</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-16</date>
<snippet>... billion dollars in new loans as it attempts to guarantee its future financial obligations as a result of the increasing bill for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 The Times

 DRUGS GROUP FACING STRIKE OVER FINAL SALARY PENSIONS AstraZeneca (AZN.L), the pharmaceutical company, is set for
its first strike in its history after around 500 employees were
balloted by their union, the GMB, in regard to a row over
pensions. Around 70 percent of those balloted voted for
industrial action after the company decided to freeze employees'
pensions on retirement at their current salary levels. Allan
Black, GMB national officer, said: "The company needs to return
to the negotiating table as a matter of urgency." BP BORROWS AN EXTRA FIVE BILLION DOLLARS TO KEEP PAYING THE
BILLS Oil major BP (BP.L) is raising five billion dollars in new
loans as it attempts to guarantee its future financial
obligations as a result of the increasing bill for the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill. It is understood the loans included a three
billion dollar loan over five years arranged by BNP Paribas and
Standard Chartered, backed by oil sales, and a two billon dollar
loan provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group and Societe
Generale. PARK SECURES 1.9 MILLION POUND WINDFALL FROM VAT CHANGES Park Group (PRKG.L), a Christmas hamper supplier and
multi-redemption gift voucher business, has successfully
reclaimed VAT on agents' commission, receiving just under 1.9
million pounds from HM Revenue &amp; Customs. Park, which claimed
for overpaid taxes between 1978 and 1996, is thought to be the
latest business beneficiary of a VAT ruling, which previously
saw Littlewoods catalogue group win a similar claim. Park's
managing director, Chris Houghton, praised his financial
advisers for working hard to deliver "quite a lot of evidence
which HMRC went through with a fine tooth comb". NEED TO KNOW: METRODOME Metrodome (MRML.L), which sells distribution rights for
media, has bought Target Entertainment for 800,000 pounds.
Target is an American distributor which owns the distribution
rights for the television programmes Taggart and Fifi and the
Flowertots. TEMPUS Cairn Energy (CNE.L) (a gamble to hold) Hunting (HTG.L) (hold) Whitbread (WTB.L) (hold) The Daily Telegraph CORUS ANNOUNCES 185 MILLION POUND INVESTMENT IN PORT TALBOT Steel manufacturer Corus [TISCG.UL] has announced a 185
million pound investment at its Port Talbot plant, which will
prolong the production of steel for the next 20 years. The Welsh
plant is to have its No 4 blast furnace completely rebuilt with
the work scheduled to begin in July 2012. A spokesman for the
company, which is owned by India's Tata Steel (TISC.BO), said:
"The project will yield the additional benefit of balancing the
iron and steel-making capacitates at Port Talbot, increasing the
capacity of the two blast furnaces by up to 400,000 tonnes per
year." BARCLAYS' BLACKROCK STAKE RISKS DEVALUING Barclays' (BARC.L) 8.4 billion dollar investment in
BlackRock has lost 2.75 billion dollars in value as the market
reacts to rumours that Bank of America (BAC.N) is considering
selling its 34 percent stake in the global fund manager. The
British bank owns 37.6 million shares in BlackRock, worth 8.4
billion dollars, which it inherited from last year's
cash-and-share sale of Barclays Global Investors for 15.2
billion dollars. JJB FAILS TO END GMB RECOGNITION JJB Sports (JJB.L) has been unsuccessful in its attempt to
end recognition of the GMB union at its Martland Mill warehouse
in Wigan. The Central Arbitration Committee ruled that the
sporting goods retailer failed to provide evidence supporting
its claim that the majority of employees supported the move. JJB
said its action was prompted by the union's failure to elect
shop stewards but the GMB accused the company of operating a
"climate of fear and intimidation" and said shop stewards will
be appointed. QUESTOR Gulfsands Petroleum (GPX.L) (buy) Greggs (GRG.L) (buy) The Independent VISITS TO TIMES ONLINE DOWN BY ONLY 27 PERCENT SINCE PAYWALL The Times newspaper has seen traffic to its website fall 27
percent since the introduction of a paywall in the beginning of
July. Some observers had forecast a reduction in traffic of up
to 90 percent and the figures, from analysts ComScore, reveal
better-than-expected performance. The paper's owner News
International had expected traffic to fall dramatically but the
number of unique visitors only fell to 1.16 million in July,
from 2.2 million in June. TREASURY CUTS HIT PROFITS AT TRIBAL Tribal Group (TRBG.L)&gt; reported a 40.3 percent fall in
adjusted pre-tax profits for the six months to June 30, on a 4.8
percent fall in revenue. The provider of public sector services
cited what it described as a "significant clampdown" in spending
by the coalition government. Profits at the group, which last
week confirmed that it had received a number of preliminary
takeover approaches, fell to 4.6 million pounds. Tribal said it
expected full-year profits to be "moderately below previous
expectations". INVESTMENT COLUMN Qinetiq (QQ.L) (looks to have most upside) The Guardian SCOTTISH FIRM WINS FOUR MILLION POUND TIDAL ENERGY CONTRACT BiFab, the offshore energy manufacturer, has won the
contract to build tidal energy turbines for Scottish Power, the
energy group. The Fife-based company has secured the four
million pound series of contracts and will build the first
full-scale working prototype device. It is claimed to be the
most advanced in the world. The device will be used for the 10MW
tidal energy project in the Sound of Islay, off the west coast
of Scotland. The turbine has been developed by Hammerfest Strom,
the joint venture between Scottish Power, Statoil and other
energy companies. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants


			Stocks
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>