<doc>
<title>Annaly Capital Management Announces Monthly Commentary for August</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-10</date>
<snippet>... Third, the BP oil spill appears to now be under control and firms affected have a better handle on the cost of the disaster and are prepared to take action. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
NEW YORK--(Business Wire)--
Annaly Capital Management, Inc. (NYSE: NLY) released its monthly commentary for
August which includes an update on developments in Washington as well as a
review of the economy and the residential mortgage, commercial mortgage,
corporate credit and Treasury markets. Through its monthly commentary and blog,
Annaly Salvos, Annaly expresses its thoughts and opinions on issues and events
in the financial markets. Please visit our website, www.annaly.com, to check out
all of the new features and to view the complete commentary with charts and
graphs. 

Washington Update

Washington continues to dominate the attention of the financial markets. The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law on
July 21. Rather than signaling the end of a long legislative process, the
signing ceremony ushered in the beginning of a long regulatory rulemaking
process. A lot of work remains to be done, with an estimated 243 rulemakings and
67 studies delegated to regulators. Much remains unresolved on many important
items, such as the Volcker Rule requirements, swap business pushout rules, bank
capital requirements, risk retention and which firms would be considered
systemically important, so firms and participants are attempting to quantify the
costs of compliance. Others are considering getting ahead of the regulators,
i.e., reports on Goldman Sachs spinning out its principal trading teams and
Morgan Stanley reducing its stake in FrontPoint Partners. This will continue to
take time and effort by a wide range of constituencies, but it stands to reason
that implementation will be limited until the rules are settled. 

One item that is conspicuously absent from Dodd-Frank is GSE reform. We have no
issue with its absence, as the tenuous state of the housing market precludes any
serious change to the housing finance system at this time. Moreover, there is
little activity in the American mortgage market outside of Ginnie Mae, Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, with virtually no private label securitization taking place
(due to uneconomic pricing and related rating agency policies). Nevertheless,
the issue remains high on the agenda of policymakers and the discussion is in
full swing. The Department of Treasury had requested public input on the housing
finance system in the US, and received over 400 responses from a wide range of
market participants. Annaly Capital Management submitted a response, in which we
made the following main points:

* The key to overhauling housing finance in America is to understand what was
broken, then keep what worked and discard what didn`t. 
* What did work? The current housing finance system (certainly the one that
prevailed outside of the mortgage credit bubble) is the most efficient and
scalable credit delivery system the world has ever seen.

* Thanks to securitization, the government guarantee and the connection between
primary mortgage borrower and secondary market investor that is facilitated by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These are features worth keeping.

* What didn`t work? The Agencies` retained portfolio activities and poor
underwriting standards in the broader mortgage marketplace.

* The private market can replace the portfolio activities as long as there is a
dependable funding market, and policymakers should focus on incentivizing and
enforcing robust underwriting practices for both rentals and homeownership.

* The market will adapt to whatever policy objective comes out of Washington,
most likely by repricing the risk, uncertainty and friction of whatever replaces
the current system. The consequences of change are that the size, scope,
availability and efficiency of the current housing finance system will change as
well. If the new system is significantly different than the housing finance
system we have now, the consequences may be that our housing finance system will
be smaller, perhaps more appropriately priced, but with lower housing values and
less flexibility and mobility for borrowers.

Treasury has planned a conference on the topic to be held on August 17 (Annaly
will be in attendance), and the House Financial Services Committee, which has
already held a number of hearings, has called for its next one to be held in
September. Treasury has pledged to have its proposal for housing finance reform
complete by January 2011, so the process will undoubtedly pick up speed in
advance of that deadline. Stay tuned. 

The Economy

The data flow during the month of July painted a relatively weak picture of the
economic recovery. Measures of consumer confidence declined, retail sales
disappointed, durable goods orders softened, and the employment situation
continues to frustrate us. Initial unemployment claims, though distorted
recently by seasonal adjustment factors, remain stubbornly over the 450,000 line
on average. Nonfarm payroll data for July was generally weak. A favorite leading
indicator for the path of total jobs, temporary help, turned negative for the
first time in nine months. The private sector added a total of 71,000 jobs, but
the real story here is that state and local governments are shedding jobs at
such a rate that they are offsetting much of these mild private sector
employment gains. Besides the federal government shedding around 143,000 census
jobs, state and local governments shrunk their payrolls by roughly 48,000. Since
September 2008, state and local governments have cut 316,000 jobs, with more
than half of those in the last seven months alone. Ongoing budget issues at the
state and local government level suggest this will continue to be a headwind. 

If, as it appears, the effect of fiscal and monetary stimulus is fading, it is
no surprise that the baton is being passed to the Federal Reserve. Throughout
its history, the Federal Reserve could respond to economic weakness by lowering
short-term rates. But with the Federal Reserve Funds rate effectively at zero,
Chairman Bernanke & Co. have moved down the checklist of alternative policy
moves outlined in his seminal deflation speech back in 2002, most of which are
related to the Federal Reserve balance sheet. As the graph, available in our
online version, demonstrates, the structure of the balance sheet accommodation
has changed over time, as the needs of the system and the Federal Reserve`s
goals have changed. 

Early in the financial crisis, Federal Reserve efforts were devoted to stopping
the bleeding, providing liquidity to those who needed it, and helping markets
function. The "Other" line above represents line items like the commercial paper
funding facility, liquidity swaps, and the holdings of the Maiden Lanes, Aurora
LLC, and ALICO Holdings. Later the focus shifted to asset purchases, primarily
of Agency MBS. As this $1.25 trillion flowed through the markets, and in
conjunction with various financing facilities (TALF, etc), spreads tightened in
every sector. Given how wide credit spreads were at the time, this strategy was
justifiable. Spreads that wide crimp borrowing and serve as a drag on the
economy. This is a new kind of Federal Reserve policy: If borrowing rates don`t
follow the Federal Reserve Funds rate down, the Federal Reserve can use its
balance sheet in a variety of ways to make it happen. This requires a new type
of analysis by the Federal Reserve (and Fed-watchers) to expand beyond rates and
spreads to take into account the actual borrowing levels both from banks and the
capital markets. This means we should be watching money supply. 

Whether or not the Federal Reserve is actually paying attention to money supply,
it is behaving as if it were watching the money supply. This is what we read
between the lines in articles like the recent Wall Street Journal article
touting a possible "symbolic shift" in Federal Reserve balance sheet management
to reinvesting cash flow from the existing portfolio of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities. Thanks to this runoff, the balance sheet at the
Federal Reserve has recently begun to shrink, as can be seen in the graph in our
online version. There is much debate over how this run-off will be handled, and
we believe the market is prepared to adapt to whatever the Federal Reserve
decides to do. The fact of the matter is that a shrinking asset portfolio at the
Federal Reserve is a de facto tightening. With a sub-3% 10-year Treasury,
mortgage rates at historic lows, Target Corp (TGT) able to borrow for 10 years
near 4%, and IBM selling one-year paper at 1%, Federal Reserve policy is more
likely focusing on money supply than rates. When the Federal Reserve buys
assets, it creates reserves at banks. In normal times, the banks would then take
those reserves and lend them out, putting that new money out into the economy.
This is the relationship that the money multiplier shows. But the problem for
the Federal Reserve is that it controls the monetary base (including reserves)
but it doesn`t control broad money supply. The normal mechanism isn`t working,
excess reserves are sitting at the Federal Reserve, and loan portfolios at the
banks continue to shrink. The Federal Reserve needs a new playbook. 

The Residential Mortgage Market

The month of July ended with contract mortgage rates remaining at historically
low levels, as 30-year fixed-rate conforming mortgages averaged 4.60% and
15-year conforming rates dipped to 4.03%. Despite such low levels, prepayment
speeds excluding the GSE delinquency buyouts have yet to gain any traction.
Prepayment speeds (measured as Constant Prepayment Rate, or CPR, which is the
percentage of principal that is returned on an annualized basis in a given
month), in June (July release) for 30-year Fannie Mae MBS dropped 38% from the
previous month, from 28.1 CPR to 17.5 CPR, as their buyout program came to an
end. Freddie Mac, whose buyouts were completed back in March, reported speeds
19.4% faster, up from CPR of 14.4 to 17.2. Speeds in July (August release) for
30-year Fannie Mae MBS increased 6% to 18.5, while Freddie Mac speeds for the
month increased 14.5% to 19.7. 

If refinancing behavior were based on rates alone, then prepayment speeds would
normally be much faster. Consider the graph, available in our online version,
courtesy of Barclays research. During most of the past decade, the CPR of
borrowers who are 100 basis points "in the money" for a lower rate was about 50
to 60. In other words, from 2000 to 2008 50% to 60% of borrowers who had the
opportunity to lower their mortgage rate by 100 basis points would have
refinanced. In 2009, however, only 20% to 25% of borrowers who are 100 basis
points "in the money" took advantage of the lower rate, behavior that is more
common when there is no particular rate incentive at all. In past commentaries
we have reviewed the reasons why refinancing behavior currently is atypically
slow, so suffice it to say that we expect refinancing speeds will stay this slow
until banks regain their footing, negative equity issues are resolved or credit
trends generally improve. 

Which brings us to the latest chatter in the residential mortgage space: There
has been speculation that the government is planning to break this refinancing
logjam by eliminating all underwriting standards such as income verification,
FICO requirements and LTV restrictions and quickly refinance all GSE-owned
mortgages down to current mortgage rates. The speculation picked up speed after
it was suggested as a possibility by some Street research and picked up by
reputable news sources. In general the market barely blinked at the story, but
the Treasury took the unusual step of refuting it. "The administration is not
considering a change in policy in this area," said Treasury spokesman Andrew
Williams. We can see the attraction of the simple outline of the rumor: Instant
stimulus without needing Congressional approval, a win-win for a party facing a
tough mid-term election. In any event, there are already plans like this in
place under HAMP and HARP. 

Leaving aside the moral hazard involved (the lender has no responsibility under
a mortgage agreement to protect the downside risk of home prices falling just as
the homeowner has no obligation to share any upside with the lender), the
rumored plan doesn`t hold water. First, the potential savings amounts-about $46
billion per year, according to the economics team at Morgan Stanley-is not
insignificant, but it is not without cost. The actual process of refinancing
itself would constitute a large capital call on banks needing to refinance the
mortgages. Furthermore, to the extent that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are taking
steps to protect taxpayers-through putting back mortgages that were improperly
underwritten or suing issuers of fraudulent private label securities-a
refinancing program like this would completely undermine that effort. If there
are no underwriting standards as part of a refi/stimulus plan under the GSE
umbrella, the government would essentially be guaranteeing unknown collateral.
This idea is nothing more than an interesting hypothetical thought exercise. 

On August 6 the FHA released more details on a previously announced program to
facilitate short refis into an FHA loan. The program, said FHA Commissioner
David Stevens, is a "lifeline out to those families who are current on their
mortgage and are experiencing financial hardships because property values in
their community have declined." Starting Sept 7, 2010 the FHA will offer certain
non-FHA borrowers the opportunity to qualify for a new FHA-insured mortgage as
long as they are FHA eligible and their lenders agree to write off at least 10%
percent of the unpaid principal balance of the first mortgage. Importantly,
participation is voluntary by the lender. Barclays concluded the program will
affect private-label securities but estimates that the program will "have a very
modest impact on overall loss assumptions (and home price forecasts) due to the
low expected eligibility." 

The Commercial Mortgage Market

Slowly, multi-borrower, mixed collateral CMBS transactions have been getting
some traction since the late spring. To date, three transactions totaling $1.8
billion have been sold. The two most recent of these, one sponsored by JP Morgan
Chase (JPMCC 2010-C1) and the other by Goldman Sachs (GSMS 2010-C1), included
below-investment grade bonds at the bottom of the capital stack. Aside from the
usual questions on pricing levels and collateral quality, investors have also
focused on new control rights and actions for certain certificate holders. This
month, we`ll examine highlights of some new control features in these
transactions. 

As previously reported in our February 2010 commentary, an investor in the
lowest-rated certificate-provided the certificate had a least 25% of its initial
face amount outstanding-was the Directing Certificate Holder who was responsible
for approving special servicer recommendations. Unrealized losses had no impact
on the certificates. Once a certificate`s balance was wiped out through realized
losses, however, the Directing Certificate Holder rights were passed on to the
next class outstanding. An unintended consequence of these structures was the
potential to anoint investors in very, very thin bond tranches as the Directing
Certificate Holder. This potential outcome led investors to the calculus of
which tranche would be the `fulcrum bond` of the deal in different scenarios,
thereby enabling that tranche to become the Directing Certificate Holder. 

New control features were introduced in June with the JPMCC 2010-C1 transaction
that had elements of the existing CMBS structures. First, approval rights would
initially be granted to the B piece buyers. Thus, change of control abilities
would be established at the outset and limited to subordinate investors. Second,
a change of control occurred not only with realized losses but with unrealized
losses through appraisal reductions as well. The latter mechanism enabled the
removal of zombie entities that had no further economic upside by holding the
position. Finally, a `Control Event` concept was introduced which meant that if
losses, realized and unrealized, wiped out the initial B piece buyers and junior
participants then a new Directing Certificate Holder would then be selected by
senior certificate holders. This mechanism clearly aligned the remaining
economics of the deal with the senior certificate holders, the majority of which
would be AAA. 

In late July, the GSMS 2010-C1 transaction introduced another significant
change-in-control feature. Simply, the most junior investor no longer had the
ability to appoint or direct the actions of a special servicer in the event a
loan went bad. From the outset, this right was conveyed to the most senior
certificate holders who are the largest investors in a deal. Also a deal website
that provides the status and updates on specially serviced loans was provided.
Given changes that senior certificate holders have been recommending to revamp
CMBS structures, this was certainly a win for them. However, as we have noted
before, working relationships are not always as smooth as envisioned. 

To us, these changes reflect the balance of power in CMBS securitizations.
First, structurers are clearly listening and reacting to investors` concerns
about control features and special servicing, as worst-case outcomes have pushed
the envelope of the traditional structures and found them wanting. Of course,
time will tell whether these new control features represent a better solution
for dealing with problem loans and the resultant conflicts. Second, there is
significant demand for the higher yielding opportunities of the mezzanine and
junior tranches. Perhaps the new features are no more than a solution to the
difficulty in placing AAA bonds yielding below 4%. 

The Corporate Credit Market

Risk appetite has returned to the corporate credit market. Several catalysts
underpin the change. First, the European bank stress tests proved to be a
relative nonevent as only a handful of institutions tested were deemed
undercapitalized in the stress scenarios. Second, US financial regulatory reform
was finally signed into law by President Obama. Third, the BP oil spill appears
to now be under control and firms affected have a better handle on the cost of
the disaster and are prepared to take action. And fourth, the Q2 2010 earnings
season is shaping up without a hitch. Hence, with certain fears allayed or at
least defined, "liquidity" has once again become the driving force behind
valuations. 

Moving in sympathy with the Treasury market, investment grade corporate yields
have dipped to a historic low of 3.94%, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch`s
index (see graph in our online version). Declining yields have propelled 2010
total returns to an impressive 8.3% year-to-date. But today`s low yield
underscores the increasing risk asymmetry of the asset class going forward.
Average dollar prices have climbed to a lofty $110.20 and the effective duration
of the market has is now a record long of 6.42 years. Increasingly, a "Japan
Scenario" is embedded in pricing. 

Investment grade spreads are now at their annual tights, having fully retraced
the Spring sell-off. Q2 earnings revealed that banks` top-line revenue was
sluggish, but overall earnings were buoyed by reserve release, providing more
evidence of managements` belief that the cyclical peak in credit losses has
passed. Moreover, several banks stated intentions to spin off certain lines of
business, proactively addressing the Volcker Rule. Improving balance sheet
credit quality and lower risk-taking are good things for bank credit and spreads
narrowed accordingly. Issuers satisfied improved investor demand by selling new
paper, propelling 2010 supply in the financials category to over $100 billion,
an 80% year-over-year increase in volume. 

Further down the credit spectrum, the high yield sector has performed in-sync
with its investment-grade counterpart. This year`s returns are pacing at 8.4%,
compared to equities` 1%. Declining default losses are supporting the sector.
The default rate continues to march lower, dropping to 5.5% vs. the cycle peak
of 13.5% last November. Moody`s recently lowered its year-forward default
expectation to a mere 1.8%. To put this rate of loss number in a return context,
at current market pricing it translates into an implied one-year excess return
of 7.5% assuming a 40% recovery rate. Contributing to lower default expectations
is capital markets liquidity. Namely, the new issue market has once again
reopened, allowing issuers to roll short-term debt and exchange bank debt for
longer-term bond debt. Furthermore, high yield companies are deleveraging; debt
leverage has declined a quarter of a turn (0.25x) to 4x for companies in Morgan
Stanley`s high yield universe over the past two quarters. The technicals of the
high yield market are also stable; fund flows have marked their fourth straight
inflow week after the spring`s net outflow period. 

In contrast, flows into leveraged loans mutual funds have lost their robust
start-of-year momentum. Over the past two months, the annualized pace of inflows
has dropped by over 50%. One of the biggest drivers of this change is likely
changing perceptions of the path of LIBOR, the rate on which most leverage loans
are indexed. Increasingly, the tepid nature of the expansion and the likelihood
that the stickiness in the high unemployment rate is due to structural factors
has fostered a growing perception that the Federal Reserve funds rate will
remain at 25 basis points for the next couple of years, keeping a low tether to
LIBOR. The effect on income for loan product has been depressing: at 4.25% YTD
total returns are running half of those of high yield bonds. 

The Treasury/Rates Market

The Treasury market seemed unstoppable in July as prices marched higher and
yields fell. Even a rally in stocks off their lows of the year and a move higher
in other "risk" assets couldn`t push Treasury prices lower as increased talk of
a Japan-like deflation scenario started to seep into the market. The two-year
Treasury reached an all time low yield for a second month in a row with a rate
of .55% on July 30. It has since briefly breached the half-percent mark. 

The Treasury sold $173 billion in notes and bonds in July, down $5 billion from
June. Demand at auction time was varied across maturities. The three-year,
seven-year, and 10-year note auctions saw tepid end user demand as indirect and
direct bids were on the weaker side. Demand was stronger in the two-year note
and 30-year bond auctions as bids were more consistent with previous auctions.
The five-year note auction was the best of the month as end-user demand was
particularly strong with combined indirect and direct bids totaling 58.7%, the
strongest since April. 

The strongest demand in the market in July was focused in the five- to
seven-year sector of the Treasury curve. One of the main reasons behind the
buying continues to be Federal Reserve maintaining the "extended period"
language in FOMC statements; market players thus are emboldened to take
advantage of the yield roll down that part of the curve. Secondly, as mentioned
earlier, economists (most notably St. Louis Federal Reserve president James
Bullard) have started to compare the current rate environment in the US to Japan
in the late 1990s when the Bank of Japan`s policy moves did little to prevent a
deflation scenario. 

In Chart 1, available in our online version, we see the yield on the 5-year JGB
since 1995 along with Japan CPI figures. You will see how yields dipped below
1.5% in 1997 and have yet to move above that level (Yields are currently under
.40%). Chart 2, available in our online version, shows the same data for the 5
year UST Bond where yields are approaching the same 1.5% level which is one
reason for the Japanese deflation talk that has become so prevalent lately. 

We will know more in five years whether the US is following in the footsteps of
Japan. Yields have been steadily moving lower since April and all eyes will be
on the Federal Reserve for clues on what tools they choose to use to manage the
situation. 

August 10, 2010

Jeremy Diamond*
Managing Director

Robert Calhoun
Vice President

Frederick Diehl
Vice President

Mary Rooney
Executive Vice President

*Please direct media inquiries to Jeremy Diamond at (212)696-010

This commentary is neither an offer to sell, nor a solicitation of an offer to
buy, any securities of Annaly Capital Management, Inc. ("Annaly"), FIDAC or any
other company. Such an offer can only be made by a properly authorized offering
document, which enumerates the fees, expenses, and risks associated with
investing in this strategy, including the loss of some or all principal. All
information contained herein is obtained from sources believed to be accurate
and reliable. However, such information is presented "as is" without warranty of
any kind, and we make no representation or warranty, express or implied, as to
the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard
to the results to be obtained from its use. While we have attempted to make the
information current at the time of its release, it may well be or become
outdated, stale or otherwise subject to a variety of legal qualifications by the
time you actually read it. No representation is made that we will or are likely
to achieve results comparable to those shown if results are shown. Results for
the fund, if shown, include dividends (when appropriate) and are net of fees.
©2010 by Annaly Capital Management, Inc./FIDAC. All rights reserved. No part of
this commentary may be reproduced in any form and/or any medium, without our
express written permission.

Annaly Capital Management, Inc.
Investor Relations
1- (888) 8Annaly
www.annaly.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>