<doc>
<title>Genoil is Shipping Crystal Sea Separator and Plans to Open Middle ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-09</date>
<snippet>... With our chemical free approach, we are uniquely suited to clean up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as well as for cleaning the sand on the beaches. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  CALGARY, ALBERTA, Aug 09 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Genoil (TSX VENTURE: GNO)(OTCBB: GNOLF) is shipping a Crystal Sea
Separator to a major VLCC operator (Very Large Crude Carriers) a division
of one of the top five oil companies in the world. The Crystal Sea unit
will be installed on board a tanker for a trial installation with the
goal of placing our Crystal Sea units on board their entire fleet.

    Genoil is to form a new subsidiary corporation in the Middle East for the
purpose of business development in the area in partnership with a
principal business group for the purpose of selling the GHU Upgrader and
Genoil's port cleaning solution. At the same time, Genoil intends to also
open an office in Dubai and another in Saudi Arabia. 

    At the request of our manufacturer DongHwa Entec, Genoil is expanding its
line of Crystal Sea Separators for the purpose of creating a full product
range of every size to appeal to the entire shipbuilding industry, and
the shipping industry in general. It is believed that this will
facilitate significant market penetration. A new worldwide marketing
effort will be initiated to sell to shipping lines. 

    Furthermore Genoil is bidding on Crystal Sea sales for a canal operator,
a naval submarine for a national navy, and worldwide port operators.

    In addition, Genoil is currently producing two new Crystal Sea units at
the request of our Middle Eastern representative for client
demonstrations. 

    Environmental Cleanup

    Genoil combats the use of dispersants in Deepwater Horizon oil spills as
its Crystal Separators can clean the water to five parts per million
without the use of any chemicals. Genoil has a large volume demonstration
unit in Canada ready to ship to the Gulf of Mexico. The Company intends
to demonstrate its superior environmentally safe technology which needs
no chemicals or dispersants. The company has expanded the oil and water
separation department. Genoil's Crystal Sea's is an environmentally safe
technology which is unique in that it makes use of the laws of physics
using centrifugal force, coalescing beads, & gravity in five chambers
almost free of oil before it arrives at the filter in the sixth stage. In
this way Genoil's separators are not prone to clogging.

    Genoil environmental team offers the best alternative to the "lesser of
the two evils" approach to the Gulf Cleanup. This approach incorporates
the use of chemical dispersants. With our chemical free approach, we are
uniquely suited to clean up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as well as for
cleaning the sand on the beaches.

    Genoil CEO adds "No other technology can separate the volume of oil and
water as we can while meeting environmental coast guard regulations of
five parts per million for overboard discharge."

    The company is contacting the consortium of EXXON, Shell, ConocoPhillips,
and Chevron to have included in their total response plan to future
spills the Genoil Crystal Sea water cleaner and its sand cleaner. Genoil
will promote with these same oil giants the use the Crystal Sea bilge
cleaner for their tankers. Genoil intends to use the growing public
awareness engendered by the oil spill to promote the cleaning of all the
ports in the United States by seeking to meet with appropriate
regulators. 

    Talks with BP are ongoing.

    FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS: Certain information regarding the company,
including management's assessment of future plans, strategic
partnerships, operations, financing outcomes and the ability to negotiate
a definitive agreement on terms acceptable to both parties may constitute
forward-looking statements under applicable securities law and
necessarily involve risks associated with an oil and gas technology
development corporation, including competition from other technologies
and the ability to access sufficient capital from internal and external
sources. When used in this press release, such statements use words such
as "intend", "may", "will", "expect", "believe", "plan" and other similar
terminology. As a consequence, actual results may differ materially from
those anticipated. The Corporation assumes no obligation to update the
forward-looking statements or to update the reasons why actual results
could differ from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, statements included in this release may constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks
and uncertainties such as competitive factors, technological development,
market demand, and the company's ability to obtain new contracts and
accurately estimate net revenues due to variability in size, scope and
duration of projects, and internal issues. Further information on
potential risk factors that could affect the company's financial results
can be found in the company's disclosure materials filed on SEDAR at
www.sedar.com and with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

    ADVISORY: The TSX Venture Exchange has neither approved nor disapproved
of the information contained herein.

Contacts:
Genoil Inc.
David Lifschultz
Chairman and CEO
(914) 393-5800
DKLifschultz@genoil.net
www.genoil.net

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>