<doc>
<title>PRESS DIGEST - British business - Aug 9</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-08</date>
<snippet>... Oil giant BP <BP.L> has confirmed that the blown-out pipe responsible for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has now been successfully plugged with cement. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 The Times

 INDIGO GETS GREEN LIGHT FOR GLOBAL GROWTH On Monday, InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG.L) is expected
to unveil how it will be bolstering the global presence of its
boutique hotel chain Indigo, as the hotel company posts a rise
in its half-year operating profits of about 126 million pounds.
IHG is expected to outline its plans to introduce a further six
British properties into the Hotel Indigo chain in the coming
three years, with a final target of as many as 30 hotels in
Britain. Plans by IHG to extend its Indigo brand come after a
report by consultancy firm HVS pointed to the growing appeal of
boutique hotels. BANK LAYS DOWN LAW TO LLOYDS AND RBS OVER END OF CHEAP
FUNDING Encouraging state-backed lenders Lloyds Banking Group
(LLOY.L) and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L) to resolve their
funding problems independently, the Bank of England has
signalled that it will not renew the Special Liquidity Scheme,
used as a means of exchanging high-quality mortgages for cheap
funding. The UK central bank said that by renewing funding to
RBS and Lloyds it could fall foul of EU state-aid rules. Senior
executives at Lloyds, which is dependent on the SLS, argue that
the provision of a new SLS would not contravene EU rules and
believe it is the function of the central bank to provide
liquidity in the system. Meanwhile, rival banks HSBC (HSBA.L)
and Barclays (BARC.L) have moved to reduce their SLS funding
after collectively raising about 25 billion pounds from the SLS. M&amp;B STRIKES OUT Mitchells &amp; Butlers (MAB.L), the restaurant and pub
operator, is expected to announce on Monday the sale of its
Hollywood Bowl chain. The 24 tenpin bowling centres will be sold
for 25 million pounds to AMF Bowling. M&amp;B will sell the
freeholds of the sites to another party. AMF Bowling is thought
to have the backing of CBPE Capital. The sale is part of M&amp;B's
strategy to dispose of non-core assets. Its Innkeeper's Lodge
budget hotel chain was sold last month for 91 million pounds. E&amp;Y INTENDS TO CLEAN UP IN THE ENERGY BUSINESS Ernst &amp; Young, one of the so-called Big Four accountants, is
to set up a dedicated practice to advise clean energy
businesses. The "cleantech" group consists of an estimated 100
staff from its audit, consulting, tax and corporate finance
divisions. E&amp;Y plans to expand the group over the next three
years and recruit 300 advisers. Its main role will be to advise
start-ups and entrepreneurs to raise funds. Steve Lang, partner
and head of the new group, said clean technology has attracted
substantial investment over the last few years and is expected
to grow significantly in the future. The Daily Telegraph BANKS TO SET UP TASKFORCE ON LACK OF LENDING The chief executives of the UK's six biggest banks have
formed a taskforce to examine the lack of funding to small
businesses. Acting on their behalf are Stephen Green, the
chairman of HSBC (HSBA.L) and the British Bankers' Association,
who have contacted the Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne. New research conducted by the Financial Ombudsman
Service shows that the number of complaints from small
businesses to the FOS about the lack of bank loans has increased
by 120 percent. The chief executives of Barclays (BARC.L), HSBC,
Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY.L), Santander (SAN.MC), Royal Bank of
Scotland (RBS.L) and Standard Chartered (STAN.L) will aim to
"assess the demand for business finance and the scale of the
market challenges on each side". FAILED AIA BID BLIGHTS PRU'S SOLID RESULTS Insurer Prudential (PRU.L) will announce a significant rise
in first-half profits this week, despite shareholders remaining
frustrated over its abortive bid for AIA, the Asian division of
rival AIG (AIG.N). Operating profit during the half to June 30
is expected to have increased by four percent to 714 million
pounds. Analysts believe the cost of Prudential's failed
acquisition of AIA has risen to 500 million pounds from 450
million pounds because of sterling's recent increase against the
dollar. However, Prudential is not expected to change its
management team or commission an independent review of the deal. BP CONFIRMS OIL WELL PLUG HAS WORKED Oil giant BP (BP.L) has confirmed that the blown-out pipe
responsible for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has now been
successfully plugged with cement. The success followed the
launch of a process known as "static kill", which involved
blocking the pipe with mud and cement poured in from the top. BP
has been trying to plug the leak since the Deepwater Horizon rig
exploded on April 20. Since then, nearly five million barrels of
oil have flowed into the sea. TULLOW AND CAIRN TOP OIL LEAGUE Research conducted by accounting and consultancy firm
Deloitte has placed Tullow Oil (TLW.L) and Cairn Energy (CNE.L)
at the top of a league table of upstream independent oil
companies. The table, which saw companies tracked by their
market capitalisation, saw Tullow and Cairn Energy regain their
places at the top while SOCO International (SIA.L) entered into
the top five following a 31 percent increase in market
capitalisation. The Independent JIMMY CHOO CONSIDERS OPTIONS FOR THE FUTURE Jimmy Choo, the luxury shoe brand with 100 stores in 32
countries, is considering its future, which could include an
initial public offering. The Malaysian-born designer sold his
stake for 8.8 million pounds in 2001, leaving co-founder Tamara
Mellon as its president. Private equity group TowerBrook Capital
Partners, now the major shareholder, promised to help turn it
into a one billion pound business within five years of buying
into the company in 2007. Jimmy Choo might also be put up for
sale, with an anticipated value of between 450 and 500 million
pounds. The Guardian INTERNATIONAL POWER TO FALL INTO FRENCH HANDS IN GDF SUEZ
DEAL French state-controlled energy firm GDF Suez (GSZ.PA) is
close to confirming the acquisition of FTSE 100-listed
International Power (IPR.L). The independent power producer
becomes the latest British firm to fall to a foreign rival, in a
deal that will result in the creation of one of the world's
largest power groups. The two parties have been in talks for
months and, barring any unexpected developments, the deal should
be confirmed on Tuesday when both firms report half-year
figures. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants


			Stocks
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>