<doc>
<title>Ocean Conservancy, Global Volunteers and Partners to Clean Up Our ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... The BP oil spill disaster in the Gulf of Mexico has outraged people who are looking for a way to help give back to the ocean and improve their communities. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Sign up to Clean up on September 25th!Locate a Cleanup site near you and join
hundreds of thousands of volunteers around the world celebrating the
International Coastal Cleanup`s 25th anniversary
WASHINGTON--(Business Wire)--
Today, Ocean Conservancy launches a new searchable online registration system
for the 25th anniversary of the International Coastal Cleanup. The online
registration helps volunteers find a Cleanup site in their hometown. The
International Coastal Cleanup, taking place on September 25th this year, is the
world's largest volunteer effort to help protect the ocean. Last year, 500,000
volunteers joined their communities to clean up local beaches, lakes, and rivers
with a common mission of improving the health of the ocean and waterways. On one
day, volunteers removed and tallied 7.4 million pounds of debris, in 108
countries and 45 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. To find a 2010
Cleanup site near you, visit www.oceanconservancy.org and search on a world map
or choose by town or zip code. 

Over the last quarter-century, the International Coastal Cleanup has grown from
a single cleanup on a Texas beach to a worldwide movement to end the threat of
trash in our ocean. In the span of twenty-five years, the International Coastal
Cleanup expanded to include hundreds of thousands of volunteers from around the
world who have removed many millions of pounds of trash from the Earth`s ocean,
lakes and waterways and documented what they found. This unwavering dedication
over the years has helped to make the environment safer for wildlife and people
alike. 

The BP oil spill disaster in the Gulf of Mexico has outraged people who are
looking for a way to help give back to the ocean and improve their communities.
The 25th annual International Coastal Cleanup is a chance to do just that. The
International Coastal Cleanup offers volunteers the chance to make a difference
for the health of our ocean by reducing ocean pollution. 

"The ocean is our life support system - yet marine debris continues to threaten
its health. From product design to disposal, we all have a role to play in
keeping our ocean clean and eliminating marine debris," said Vikki Spruill,
President and CEO of Ocean Conservancy. "The International Coastal Cleanup is an
essential step to finding solutions. Data collected by dedicated volunteers
inform solutions to the threat of trash in our ocean. By understanding sources
of marine debris, we can work together to solve this problem. Join me and
communities around the world this September 25th to celebrate the International
Coastal Cleanup and a 25-year Sea Change." 

Trash is one of the most widespread pollution problems threatening our ocean and
waterways and it`s entirely preventable. Marine debris is more than an eyesore.
It is a threat to marine wildlife and ecosystems; and undermines tourism and
economic activity. Our ocean is stressed from disasters like the BP Deepwater
Horizon spill, pollution, overfishing, habitat loss, rising sea temperatures and
acidification. Keeping our ocean free from trash is one of the easiest ways we
can make the ocean more resilient to these combined threats. 

Each year during the International Coastal Cleanup, volunteers from around the
world spend a few hours removing trash and debris from beaches, lakes, rivers
and other waterways keeping track of every piece of trash they find. Ocean
Conservancy uses that information to produce the world`s only annual
country-by-country, state-by-state index of the problem of marine debris. The
report is shared with the public, industry, and government officials as we work
together to end to problem of marine debris. 

The Coca-Cola Company has supported the International Coastal Cleanup (ICC) for
the past 15 years. Two years ago, Coca-Cola launched a multi-year partnership
with Ocean Conservancy, through a $1 million pledge to support the ICC. Last
year, nearly 42,000 Coca-Cola system associates, their friends and families in
32 markets around the world participated in the ICC, contributing nearly 265,000
hours of volunteer time. As part of its $20 billion, 10-year initiative to
address climate change, Bank of America has supported the ICC for the past
several years, with thousands of associates participating in Cleanup events
across the United States and around the world. Other national sponsors include
Altria Group, Inc.; Booz Allen Hamilton; The Dow Chemical Company; National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA); The Solo Cup Company; and U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 

For additional information about the International Coastal Cleanup, and to sign
up to be a part of the next wave of volunteers visit: www.oceanconservancy.org.
Media assets are available at www.oceanconservancy.org/iccmedia. 

Ocean Conservancy is the world's foremost advocate for the oceans. Through
science-based advocacy, research, and public education, we inform, inspire and
empower people to speak and act for the oceans. Ocean Conservancy is
headquartered in Washington, DC, and has offices in Florida, the Gulf of Mexico,
and the Pacific, including Alaska, with support from more than half a million
members and volunteers. www.oceanconservancy.org.

Ocean Conservancy
Kelly Ricaurte, 202-351-0482
kricaurte@oceanconservancy.org



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>