<doc>
<title>Amazon Defense Coalition: Ecuador Court Invites Final Submissions ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-09</date>
<snippet>... sampling results documenting contamination at more than 100 former Chevron oil production sites. ... up costs of other large disasters such at the BP spill in the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Chevron`s Hypocrisy On Display As Oil Giant Tries to Block Relief It Had
Previously Requested
LAGO AGRIO, Ecuador--(Business Wire)--
In what should be viewed as a gain for Chevron, the Ecuadorian judge overseeing
the multi-billion dollar environmental lawsuit against the oil giant has ordered
both parties to submit independent damages assessments within six weeks, lawyers
for the Amazonian communities announced today. 

Chevron, however, is opposing the order that allows it to do its own damages
assessment, said Jonathan Abady, who represents the Amazonian communities. 

The court last week ordered the new damages assessments based on the existing
evidence in the case, which includes more than 64,000 chemical sampling results
documenting contamination at more than 100 former Chevron oil production sites.
The reports are due in late September. 

The latest order came in response to numerous complaints by Chevron over the
report produced by Dr. Richard Cabrera in 2008. However, when the judge ordered
the parties to submit their own assessments, Chevron immediately filed a motion
to block the court from implementing its order. That motion was denied. 

The order to conduct new assessments suggests that the judge in Ecuador is
bending over backwards to accommodate Chevron`s numerous requests for relief,
but that Chevron is not really interested in participating in the trial, said
Abady. 

In light of its own soil sampling currently in evidence - which proves
overwhelmingly that Chevron is liable for extensive and costly remediation -- it
appears the company`s only strategy is to try to attack a single report prepared
by Cabrera, said Abady. 

"This is the ultimate test for Chevron to put up or shut up," Abady said. "Since
Chevron seems to be so unhappy with the Cabrera report, it is incumbent on the
company to do its own damages assessment now that the court is providing that
opportunity. If they refuse to participate in the process, at this juncture
under these circumstances, Chevron`s obstructionism and hypocrisy will be on
display for everyone to see." 

"Chevron essentially asked the judge to issue an order blocking Chevron from
receiving the very relief it had requested," said Abady. "That`s because Chevron
knows the extent of the pervasive damage it caused to the Ecuadorian rainforest.
Any legitimate damages assessment will corroborate this essential fact." 

"Now that Chevron has gotten what it had asked for, it claims it doesn`t want
it," added Abady. "Chevron has an opportunity to submit its own damages analysis
from its own expert - and it doesn`t want to do that? 

"These facts speak for themselves. There is nothing new in this tactic. Chevron
continues to try to block a judgment on the merits," he added. 

The Amazonian communities in Ecuador have defended the Cabrera report as valid
and technically sound, and have pointed out that the $27.3 billion damages
number in his report is modest compared to clean up costs of other large
disasters such at the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 

The judge issued his order on August 2. It asks the parties to assess the
"economic cost" of the environmental damages documented by more than 100 expert
reports and the tens of thousands of chemical sampling results now before the
court. 

It is unclear whether the court ultimately will rely on the Cabrera report or
one of the numerous other expert reports currently in evidence when assessing
liability and damages, said Ilann Maazel, another American lawyer who represents
the plaintiffs. 

Even though Cabrera had asked that both parties submit information he could use
in his report, Chevron boycotted the process as part of a strategy to discredit
the court, said Maazel.

Amazon Defense Coalition
Karen Hinton, 703-798-3109
Karen@hintoncommunications.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>