<doc>
<title>PRESS DIGEST - British business - Aug 7</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-06</date>
<snippet>... BP <BP.L> has confirmed it would consider drilling at the site of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in the future. Doug Suttles, currently ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 The Times

 OWNERS LOOK TO KICK OFF 40 MILLION POUND SALE OF JONES
BOOTMAKER Ken Bartle and Peter Phillips, the chief executive and the
chairman of footwear company Jones Bootmaker, have selected
accountants BDO Stoy Hayward to find a buyer for the business,
which could be worth up to 40 million pounds. Bartle, Phillips
and a group of anonymous investors spent 4.5 million pounds to
rescue Jones in March when its Icelandic private equity backers,
Arev and Kcaj, were affected by the financial crisis. Jones
Bootmaker nearly trebled its earnings from 1.4 million pounds to
four million pounds in the year to January 30, with this year's
earnings predicted to reach six million pounds. THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO DELIVERS London publisher Quercus (QUPP.PZ) has reported its first
profit, on the back of sales of Swedish author Stieg Larsson's
popular Millennium trilogy. Larsson, who has posthumously become
the first author to sell more than one million e-books through
Amazon's Kindle hardware and software platform, spurred the
publisher to a 3.4 million pound profit in the first half of the
year. Quercus had made a 100,000 pound loss in 2009. Meanwhile,
the first half saw the publisher's revenues triple to 15 million
pounds. All three books in the Millennium trilogy have been
adapted into Swedish-language feature films. NEED TO KNOW: JOHN LEWIS John Lewis [JLP.UL], which has the largest chain of
department stores in Britain, has announced that sales were up
by 2.7 percent in the last week of July. Minus the figure for
the week ending July 31, the company's first half sales are up
14.9 percent. In the same week, sales at Waitrose, John Lewis'
grocery chain, were up 9.3 percent. The Daily Telegraph INMARSAT TO PROVIDE LIVE TV ON PLANES Inmarsat (ISA.L), the mobile satellite company, has
confirmed its 1.2 billion dollar purchase of three
state-of-the-art satellites that will allow airline passengers
to watch live TV while travelling. The satellites, which will be
up and running by 2014, are expected to generate an additional
500 million dollars in annual sales five years after launch. The
company reported a 56 percent hike in profits, with first-half
profits up from 97 million dollars to 152 million dollars
pre-tax. Shares in Inmarsat rose 28.5 pence to 741.5 pence. BP SAYS IT COULD DRILL AT GULF DISASTER SITE IN THE FUTURE BP (BP.L) has confirmed it would consider drilling at the
site of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in the future. Doug
Suttles, currently in charge of the day-to-day clean-up, said:
"There's lots of oil and gas here. We're going to have to think
about what to do with that at some point." The news is likely to
enrage residents, fishermen and local businesses, whose
livelihoods have been severely affected by the spill as well as
a group of U.S. Congressmen who stated that they are trying to
pass a bill to prevent the company from future drilling off the
U.S. coastline. Shares in BP closed up 1.95 pence at 425.35
pence. VECTURA SOARS ON DEAL WITH GSK Biotech firm Vectura (VEC.L) saw shares gain on news that it
had secured a deal to license some of its drug patents to
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK.L). The agreement will see Vectura benefit
from ten million pounds upfront from GSK in September and an
additional ten million pounds at a later date. When the products
are launched, Vectura will also gain from royalties of up to 13
million pounds a year. In response to the news, shares in
Vectura closed at 54.75 pence, up 12.9 percent, having already
increased by as much as 21 percent earlier on. DANA MEETS KNOC OVER 1.7 BILLION POUND OFFER Senior management at Dana Petroleum (DNX.L), the independent
North Sea oil explorer, are meeting delegates from South Korea's
state-backed Korea National Oil Corporation over its offer of 18
pounds a share. KNOC maintains that its 1.7 billion pound offer
is a fair price. Dana was initially reluctant and last week
demanded proof of funding, which has been supplied. Major
shareholders are urging that the offer should be considered
seriously. Since KNOC's initial approach on July 2, the price
has risen 45 percent, with investment bank UBS improving its
holding to 12.45 percent, presumably on behalf of a hedge fund.
It is understood that KNOC might attempt a hostile takeover if
an agreement with Dana's executives fails to materialise. WHAT THE BROKERS SAY National Grid (NG.L) (Buy) Compass (CPG.L) (Buy) Hammerson (HMSO.L) (Hold) Travis Perkins (TPK.L) (Hold) The Independent GIBBONS PINS HOPES ON CHINA ORDERS Stanley Gibbons (SGI.L), the stamp dealer and philatelic
publisher, reported pre-tax profits of 1.6 million pounds in the
six months to June 30. This is an increase of ten percent. Sales
increased 24 percent to 11.9 million pounds. Gibbons is
confident of further growth from the development of its website
and entry into the Chinese market. The company sells everything
from rare stamps to celebrity autographs and reported a
resurgence in demand for British stamps which increased by 74
percent in the first six months of the year. The Guardian CONNAUGHT SHARES PLUNGE AFTER IT WARNS PROFITS WILL BE WIPED
OUT Connaught (CNT.L), the social housing maintenance group,
said it will make a "material" operating loss for the current
financial year. Chairman Sir Roy Gardner said even removing
writedowns and other one-off charges, the profit figure would be
"no better than break-even". The statement to the Stock Exchange
comes five weeks after a shock profits warning in which deferred
spending by customers on medium-term contracts was likely to cut
profits by 13 million pounds. As a result of the current
statement, the company's shares almost halved to 15.5 pence, a
fall of 13.5 pence. RBS BOSS URGES GOVERNMENT TO BEGIN SELLING TAXPAYER'S STAKE Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L) chief executive Stephen
Hester has suggested that the government can immediately begin
selling off its 83 percent stake in the bank, which on Friday
reported its first profit since the onset of the credit crisis.
The bank posted interim first-half profits of 1.1 billion
pounds, the bulk of it from its investment banking operations.
RBS could potentially be affected by the government's banking
commission, which has proposed breaking up the banks in order to
make the financial system less risky. COUTTS SAVING FUND INVESTIGATED Reporting half-year results on Friday, Royal Bank of
Scotland (RBS.L) said that it was notified last month that the
Financial Services Authority had launched an investigation into
saving products sold by its private banking arm Coutts. The
regulator is looking into Coutts' sale of AIG (AIG.N) bonds
between 2001 and 2008. The bonds deteriorated when the credit
crunch forced the stricken U.S. life insurer to freeze
investors' funds before eventually being bailed out by the U.S.
administration. RBS maintains it was clear in describing the
investments as low risk rather than risk-free and has said that
it is cooperating fully with the regulator. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants


			Stocks
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>