<doc>
<title>Teledyne Technologies to Present at Jefferies` 6th Annual ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-06</date>
<snippet>... credit to the company`s suppliers and customers and a potential decrease in offshore oil production and exploration activity due to April 2010 oil spill in the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
THOUSAND OAKS, Calif.--(Business Wire)--
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:TDY) today announced that Robert
Mehrabian, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Jason VanWees,
vice president, corporate development and investor relations, will make a
presentation at the Jefferies & Company`s 6th Annual Global Industrial and A&D
Conference on Tuesday, August 10, at 1:45 p.m. (Eastern) at the Mandarin
Oriental Hotel in New York City. 

A live webcast of Teledyne Technologies` conference presentation may be accessed
via the company`s website at www.teledyne.com. In addition, Teledyne
Technologies` latest investor presentation will be publicly available on the
company`s website. 

Teledyne Technologies is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
subsystems, instrumentation and communication products, engineered systems,
aerospace engines, and energy and power generation systems. Teledyne
Technologies` operations are primarily located in the United States, the United
Kingdom and Mexico. For more information, visit Teledyne Technologies` website
at www.teledyne.com. 

Teledyne`s investor relations presentation contains forward-looking statements,
as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, directly and
indirectly relating to earnings, growth opportunities, product sales, pension
matters, stock option compensation expense, debt issuance, taxes and strategic
plans. All statements made in the investor presentation that are not historical
in nature should be considered forward-looking. Actual results could differ
materially from these forward-looking statements. Many factors could change the
anticipated results: including disruptions in the global economy; insurance and
credit markets; changes in demand for products sold to the defense electronics,
instrumentation and energy exploration and production, commercial aviation,
semiconductor and communications markets; funding, continuation and award of
government programs; continued liquidity of the company`s suppliers and
customers (including commercial and aviation customers); availability of credit
to the company`s suppliers and customers and a potential decrease in offshore
oil production and exploration activity due to April 2010 oil spill in the Gulf
of Mexico. Increasing fuel costs could negatively affect the markets of the
company`s commercial aviation businesses. Lower oil and natural gas prices could
negatively affect the company`s business units that supply the oil and gas
industry. In addition, financial market fluctuations affect the value of the
company`s pension assets. 

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats increase uncertainties
associated with forward-looking statements about the company`s businesses.
Various responses to terrorism and perceived threats could realign government
programs, and affect the composition, funding or timing of the company`s
programs. Changes in U.S. Government policy could result, over time, in
reductions and realignment in defense or other government spending and further
changes in programs in which the company participates, including anticipated
reductions in the company`s missile defense engineering services and gas
centrifuge service module manufacturing programs, as well as certain NASA
programs. 

The company continues to take action to assure compliance with the internal
controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002. While the company believes its control systems are effective, there are
inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or
fraud may occur and not be detected. 

Teledyne Technologies` growth strategy includes possible acquisitions. The
company cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or on what terms any other
acquisitions will be made. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as,
among others, the company`s ability to integrate acquired businesses and retain
customers and to achieve identified financial and operating synergies. There are
additional risks associated with acquiring, owning and operating businesses
outside of the United States, including those arising from U.S. and foreign
government policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations. 

Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is
contained in Teledyne Technologies` periodic filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, including its 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The company assumes no duty to update
forward-looking statements.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
Investor Contact:
Jason VanWees
(805) 373-4542
or
Press Contact:
Robyn McGowan
(805) 373-4540 

Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>