<doc>
<title>Banks and insurers lift FTSE</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-06</date>
<snippet>... BP finished pumping cement into its ruptured oil well in the Gulf of Mexico on Thursday to seal off the source of the world's worst offshore spill, paving the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's top shares pushed higher near midday on Friday, with RBS results and firmer commodities prices lifting bank and mining stocks, but volumes were thin as investors awaited the key U.S. jobs report for July.

At 1042 GMT (6:42 a.m. EDT), the FTSE 100 .FTSE index was up 39.27 points, or 0.7 percent, at 5,405.05, above the psychologically important 5,400 level beyond which it has not closed since May 13."Expectations are for around 85,000 (U.S.) jobs to have been lost in July and with global stock markets looking decidedly jittery in recent days, any slightly worse number could be enough of a catalyst to spark off selling ahead of the weekend," Will Hedden, sales trader at IG Index, said.Royal Bank of Scotland led bank shares higher on Friday, rising 2.3 percent after lower impairment losses helped its second quarter operating profit and the bank forecast good medium-term prospects for its business.RBS which is 83-percent state-owned, rounded off the British bank's reporting season with an operating profit of 869 million pounds ($1.38 billion) for the second-quarter, compared 713 million pounds in the first-quarter.Peer Lloyds Bankings Group (LLOY.L), which posted strong results on Wednesday, gained 0.8 percent. Barclays (BARC.L) rose 1.5 percent, after falling early in the day on a UBS downgrade.Among other financials, Old Mutual (OML.L) added 3.1 percent after the Anglo-South African firm posted a better-than-expected 43-percent jump in half-year profits, helped by cost cuts.The group also said it had sold its U.S. life insurer for $350 million to hedge fund Harbinger Capital.Insurers were also bolstered by other well-received results in the sector. RSA Insurance (RSA.L) rose 1.3 percent after Jefferies raised its rating to "buy" from "hold."Satellites operator Inmarsat (ISA.L) was the top FTSE 100 riser, reversing earlier declines to add 6.2 percent as investors warmed to its above-forecast second-quarter results and $1.2 billion satellite fleet order.Integrated oils were the top blue chip performers, led by BP (BP.L), which is up 2.7 percent. BP finished pumping cement into its ruptured Gulf of Mexico oil well on Thursday to seal off the source of the world's worst offshore spill.MINERS LEND STRENGTHMiners added their strength to the index as copper prices rose and gold held steady ahead of U.S. job data.Miners also got a boost after Exane BNP Paribas upped its stance on the European sector to "outperform" from "underperform" and raised individual ratings on Rio Tinto (RIO.L), Xstrata (XTA.L) and Kazakhmys (KAZ.L). The upgraded trio's shares rose by between 2.3 and 2.7 percent.But Lonmin missed out on the sector gains, topping the FTSE 100 fallers list with a 3.3 percent drop, after it said the South African government had ordered it to stop selling nickel, copper and other offshoots of its platinum production due to a dispute over the prospecting rights.Among other blue-chip fallers, Unilever (ULVR.L) shed 1.6 percent after UBS and ING both downgraded the household products firm. Unilever reported higher second-quarter sales on Thursday but warned of a tough second half due to higher commodity costs and stiff competition.Other blue chips perceived by investors as defensive stocks also weakened as appetite for riskier assets returned. Food producers and brewers were among the worst off with traders citing concerns about rising grain prices. AB Foods (ABF.L) and SABMiller (SAB.L) lost 2.2 and 1.6 percent respectively.(Editing by Lin Noueihed)


	
    </content>
</doc>