<doc>
<title>Timeline: Gulf of Mexico oil spill</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-05</date>
<snippet>HOUSTON - Here is a timeline on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and its impact since an explosion on a rig killed 11 workers. It is ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
HOUSTON (Reuters) - Here is a timeline on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and its impact since an explosion on a rig killed 11 workers. It is the worst accidental offshore oil spill in history.

April 20, 2010 - Explosion and fire on Transocean Ltd's drilling rig Deepwater Horizon licensed to BP Plc; 11 workers are killed. The rig was drilling in BP's Macondo project 42 miles southeast of Venice, Louisiana, in 5,000 feet of water and 13,000 feet under the seabed.April 22 - The Deepwater Horizon rig, valued at more than $560 million, sinks and a 5-mile (8-km) oil slick forms.April 25 - The well's blowout preventer fails.April 29 - U.S. President Barack Obama pledges "every single available resource," including the U.S. military, to contain the spreading spill and says BP is responsible for the cleanup.April 30 - An Obama aide says no drilling will be allowed in new areas, until the cause of the accident is known.-- BP Chief Executive Tony Hayward says the company takes full responsibility and will pay all legitimate claims and the cost of the cleanup.May 2 - Obama visits the Gulf Coast. U.S. officials close areas affected by the spill to fishing for 10 days. BP starts drilling a relief well alongside the failed well, a process that may take two to three months to complete.May 7 - An attempt to place a containment dome over the spewing well fails.May 11/12 - Executives from BP, Transocean and Halliburton appear at congressional hearings in Washington. The executives blame each other's companies.May 14 - Obama slams companies involved in the spill, criticizing them for a "ridiculous spectacle" of publicly trading blame in his sternest comments yet.May 19 - The first heavy oil from the spill hits fragile Louisiana marshlands. Part of the slick enters a powerful current that could carry it to the Florida Keys and beyond.May 28 - Obama tours the Louisiana coast, saying, "I am the president and the buck stops with me."-- Hayward flies over the Gulf.May 29 - BP says the complex "top kill" maneuver, started three days earlier to plug the well, has failed.June 1 - BP shares plunge 17 percent in London trading, wiping $23 billion off its market value, on news the latest attempt to plug the well has failed.-- U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder says the Justice Department has launched a criminal and civil investigation into the rig explosion and the spill.June 2 - BP tries another capping strategy but has difficulty cutting off a leaking riser pipe.-- U.S. authorities expand fishing restrictions to cover 37 percent of U.S. federal waters in the Gulf.June 4 - Obama, on his third trip to the region, warns BP against skimping on compensation to residents and businesses.June 8 - Obama says he wants to know "whose ass to kick" over the spill, adding to the pressure on BP.June 9 - U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar says BP must pay the salaries of thousands of workers laid off by a moratorium on drilling, at a congressional hearing.June 10 - In first comments, British Prime Minister David Cameron says Britain is ready to help BP deal with the spill.June 11 - Supportive comments from Britain lift BP's shares in London by 6.4 percent. But the rise does not mend the damage done -- the company is worth 70 billion pounds ($102 billion) against more than 120 billion pounds in April.June 14 - Obama, makes a fourth trip to the Gulf.-- Two U.S. lawmakers release a letter to Hayward saying: "It appears that BP repeatedly chose risky procedures in order to reduce costs and save time and made minimal efforts to contain the added risk."June 15 - Lawmakers summon top executives from Exxon Mobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Royal Dutch Shell and BP.-- Obama says in his first televised speech from the Oval Office: "But make no mistake: we will fight this spill with everything we've got for as long it takes. We will make BP pay for the damage their company has caused."June 16 - BP agrees to set up a $20 billion fund for damage claims from the spill, suspends dividend payments to shareholders and says it will pay $100 million to workers idled by the six-month moratorium on deep-sea drilling.June 17 - Hayward faces the wrath of U.S. lawmakers as he appears before a congressional hearing. He apologizes for the spill and says everything is being done to stop it. Members of Congress accuse BP of cutting corners for the sake of profit.June 18 - Anadarko Petroleum, part owner of the gushing well, says BP's behavior before the blowout was "reckless" and likely represented "gross negligence or willful misconduct" that would affect obligations of the well owners.June 20 - Internal BP document released by U.S. congressman shows BP estimates that a worst-case scenario rate could be 100,000 barrels (4.2 million gallons/15.9 million liters) a day. This is far higher than the U.S. government estimate of 60,000 barrels (2.5 million gallons/9.5 million liters) a day.June 22 - Hayward is handing day-to-day control of the spill operation to Bob Dudley -- a reflection, says BP, of the need for the CEO to return to other aspects of the business.June 24 - A U.S. judge refuses to put on hold his decision to lift a ban on deepwater drilling imposed after the spill.June 30 - Obama formally directs officials to draw up a long-term economic and environmental plan to help the Gulf Coast region get back on its feet after the oil spill.July 3 - A supertanker converted into a "super skimmer" begins tests. The vessel can remove up to 500,000 barrels (21 million gallons/79.5 million liters) of oil and water from the sea surface a day.July 7 - Tests show tar balls washed up on the Texas coast are from the spill, meaning every U.S. Gulf state -- Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and now Texas -- has been soiled by the spill.July 12 - BP installs a "capping stack," which has a better seal than the last cap placed on the well and aims to stop oil from spewing out.-- BP starts shutting a sequence of valves after getting approval from the U.S. government, delaying testing by 24 hours on fears the process could irreparably damage the well.July 15 - BP says it has stopped the leak -- at least during testing -- with the new tight-sealing containment cap.July 19 - BP says it has spent $3.95 billion so far on efforts to tackle its leaking well.July 20 - BP says it has reached a deal to sell $7 billion in assets to Apache Corp as it raises money to cover costs related to the spill. It later says it plans to sell assets worth up to $30 billion over the next 18 months.July 23 - BP says it is temporarily suspending relief well activities due to the approach of Tropical Storm Bonnie.July 27 - BP names American Bob Dudley as its next CEO, saying Tony Hayward will stand down on October 1.-- BP reports a Q2 loss of $17 billion after covering the cost of the explosion and resulting spill.August 2 - U.S. government data shows 4.9 million barrels of oil leaked before the well was capped in mid-July, suggesting the company had underestimated the cost by at least $1 billion.-- BP had estimated the well had leaked some 4 million barrels and that it would be fined $1,100 per barrel under the Clean Water Act. The company faces fines of $4,300 per barrel if gross negligence is proven.August 3 - U.S. securities regulators are investigating potential insider trading in shares of BP, including by BP employees, two sources familiar with the probe say.-- BP says heavy drilling mud injected into it the ruptured well is stemming the flow of crude.August 4 - BP says it is close to subduing its ruptured well, and the White House hails the "beginning of the end" of the crisis.-- Government scientists say about 50 percent of the spilled oil has been captured, evaporated, burned or skimmed, while another quarter had been naturally or chemically dispersed.August 5 - Following the initial success of its "static kill," BP says cement pumping is to begin.(Writing by David Cutler, London Editorial Reference Unit)


			Green Business
			Hot Stocks
			Asian Markets
			Gulf Oil Spill
			
	
    </content>
</doc>