<doc>
<title>AbTech Updates Activity in the Gulf</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-05</date>
<snippet>... in ongoing, long term, oil cleanup efforts in the Gulf of Mexico, where current estimates suggests the disaster is the largest accidental oil spill in history ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  PHOENIX, AZ, Aug 05 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
AbTech Holdings, Inc. (OTCBB: ABHD) (the "Company") is pleased to
announce that ongoing efforts are underway in order to place AbTech and
its water cleaning Smart Sponge(R) technology at the forefront of
companies attempting to aid in ongoing, long term, oil cleanup efforts in
the Gulf of Mexico, where current estimates suggests the disaster is the
largest accidental oil spill in history with 4.9 million barrels of oil
released into the Gulf waters. 

    The Company has registered with the Deep Horizon Command Center, and is a
registered vendor in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and
Florida. AbTech has also submitted individual and joint consortium
proposals to the Interagency Alternative Technology Assessment Program
(IATAP) and is currently in various phases of testing with the Incident
Command Centers in the Gulf region. Additionally, AbTech's Smart
Sponge(R) has been acknowledged by the U.S. Coast Guard as having a
"Potential for Benefit" and the Company is working with local contractors
in a concerted effort to deploy its products in order to aid in restoring
this fragile and valuable environment.

    AbTech's Smart Sponge products configured expressly for this tragic event
consist of both absorptive and filtration devices offering specific
remediation value unlike other commonly used suppression methods.
Deployed behind containment booms, oil is absorbed immediately on contact
and in published tests Smart Sponge(R) has achieved 10 minute absorption
rates of 8.6:1 for Kuwait Light Crude and 3.4:1 for North Slope Crude.
The product offers less expensive, non-hazardous disposal because once
oil is absorbed, the Smart Sponge(R) transforms the pollutants into a
stable solid for easy recycling, providing a closed-loop solution to
water pollution.

    It is worth noting that AbTech Industries originally certified its Smart
Sponge technologies for Oil Spill Recovery in 1996. Since that time
AbTech has garnered extensive expertise through its concerted focus on
Stormwater, Industrial, Military, and other remedial applications, and as
a result, AbTech products are currently deployed in over 13,000
locations, in 36 states, and various countries around the world.
Significantly, the Environmental Protection Agency lists AbTech's
Ultra-Urban(R) Filter series with Smart Sponge(R) technology as a Best
Management Practice (BMP) under the federal guidelines that local
governments must follow.

    From a management perspective, and as previously announced, AbTech
Holdings has entered into a Letter of Intent ("LOI") to acquire all of
the issued and outstanding capital stock of AbTech Industries, Inc. At
the closing of the Transaction, AbTech Industries will become a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company and the board of directors and management
of AbTech will become the board of directors and management of the
Company. 

    Details of the company's business, finances, appointments and agreements
can be found as part of the Company's continuous public disclosure as a
reporting issuer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's ("SEC") EDGAR database. 

    About AbTech Holdings, Inc. (OTCBB: ABHD)
 Abtech Holdings has entered
into an agreement to acquire Abtech Industries, an environmental
technologies firm dedicated to providing innovative solutions to
communities and industry addressing issues of water pollutants and
contamination and its products are based on polymer technologies capable
of removing hydrocarbons, sediment and other foreign elements from still
(ponds, lakes and marinas) or flowing water (curbside drains, pipe
outflows, rivers and oceans). The Company has currently installed its
products in over 13,000 locations across America and in 8 countries
worldwide. For more information please visit: www.abtechindustries.com.

    Notice Regarding Information in this Release
 This release contains
information which has been publicly disclosed by AbTech Industries, Inc.,
and is being provided by Abtech Holdings solely for informational
purposes in light of the previously announced merger agreement between
Abtech Holdings and AbTech Industries. Because complete public
information regarding the history, business, management, financial
condition and results of operations of AbTech Industries will not be
available unless and until the conditions to the previously announced
merger transaction between Abtech Holdings and AbTech Industries have
been satisfied and the merger has been completed, the information in this
release should not be relied upon for purposes of any investment decision
with respect to the purchase or sale of stock of AbTech Holdings. 

    Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 This news release contains
"forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in Section 27A of
the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements in this press
release which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements
and include any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or
intentions regarding the future. Such forward-looking statements include,
among other things, the development, costs and results of new business
opportunities. Actual results could differ from those projected in any
forward-looking statements due to numerous factors. Such factors include,
among others, the inherent uncertainties associated with new projects and
development stage companies. These forward-looking statements are made as
of the date of this news release, and we assume no obligation to update
the forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons why actual
results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking
statements. Although we believe that any beliefs, plans, expectations and
intentions contained in this press release are reasonable, there can be
no assurance that any such beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions
will prove to be accurate. Investors should consult all of the
information set forth herein and should also refer to the risk factors
disclosure outlined in our annual report on Form 10-K for the most recent
fiscal year, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other periodic
reports filed from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

    ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD

    AbTech Holdings, Inc.
 -----------------------------
 Mandi Luis,
President

    

Investors Relations
Phone: +1 877-280-9685
Email: info@abtechinfo.us 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>