<doc>
<title>UPDATE 3-US Senate approves Obama top court nominee Kagan</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-05</date>
<snippet>* Kagan unlikely to change court's balance of power. * Nomination overshadowed by Gulf of Mexico oil spill. (Adds Obama comments, Kagan watching the vote). ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
 * Vote largely along partisan lines

 * Kagan unlikely to change court's balance of power * Nomination overshadowed by Gulf of Mexico oil spill (Adds Obama comments, Kagan watching the vote) By James Vicini WASHINGTON, Aug 5 (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama's
nomination of Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court won Senate
approval on Thursday, his second appointment to the court that
decides abortion, death penalty and other contentious cases. The Democratic-led Senate voted largely along party lines,
63-37, to confirm the former Harvard Law School dean as the
fourth female justice in U.S. history and the 112th high court
member. Kagan was Obama's solicitor general, arguing government
cases before the Supreme Court, when he named her in May as his
choice to replace the retiring liberal Justice John Paul
Stevens. The 50-year-old Kagan, who will be the third woman on the
current court, is not expected to change the ideological
balance of power on the closely divided panel, which for years
has been dominated by a 5-4 conservative majority. In Chicago, Obama expressed confidence that Kagan will be
an outstanding justice. "And I am proud also of the history we are making with her
appointment. For nearly two centuries there wasn't a single
woman on our nation's highest court. When Elena takes her seat
on that bench, for the first time in our history there will be
three women," he said. "Today's vote wasn't just an affirmation of Elena's
intellect and accomplishment, it was also an affirmation of her
character and her temperament, her open-mindedness and
even-handedness," Obama said. All Democratic senators but one voted for her, two
independent senators voted for her and five Republicans voted
for her. All other Republican senators opposed her nomination. OBAMA'S JUDICIAL LEGACY Kagan becomes Obama's second lifetime appointee on the
nine-member Supreme Court, allowing him to reshape the court
and leave a judicial legacy that could last long after he
leaves office. U.S. appeals court Judge Sonia Sotomayor was confirmed last
year by a 68-31 vote as the first Hispanic Supreme Court
justice. The two appointments underscore an effort by Obama to move
the court to the left after Republican President George W. Bush
nominated a pair of conservative judges to the bench. Kagan's nomination proved to be less contentious than
expected and was largely overshadowed in the Senate by the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill and concerns over the sluggish U.S.
economy. The three days of Senate debate that ended Thursday often
reflected partisan differences ahead of the congressional
elections in November, when one-third of the Senate and the
entire House of Representatives will be up for re-election. Democratic senators praised Kagan for her legal intellect,
her ability to build consensus, for bringing a fresh
perspective to the court and for being fair-minded. It will be
the first time for the court to have three female justices. Republican senators said Kagan, a White House lawyer during
Bill Clinton's presidency, seemed driven more by politics than
the law and lacked judicial experience. She becomes the first
justice in nearly 40 years who had never been a judge. Kagan will be sworn in on Saturday, a Supreme Court
spokeswoman said. The court is in recess until October, when it
will return to the bench for a new term to hear disputes on
immigration, violent videos and other cases. A source familiar with the matter said Kagan watched the
vote on television with her Justice Department colleagues in
the solicitor general's conference room.
 (Additional reporting by Rick Cowan, Jeremy Pelofsky, Matt
Spetalnick and Alister Bull; Editing by Stacey Joyce and Eric
Walsh)
 (For more information about cases the court will hear in its
next term, click [ID:nN05173351]. And for details about other
Senate confirmation votes, click [ID:nN05172961])





			Bonds News
			Bonds
			Global Markets
			
	
    </content>
</doc>