<doc>
<title>Pavilion Energy Resources, Inc. -- Australia "Big Wind" Power ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-05</date>
<snippet>... BP's devastating Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster means investors are switching to renewable energy stocks as they realize that risky fossil fuel energy ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  LOS ANGELES, CA, Aug 05 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Pavilion Energy Resources, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: PVRE) -- The Company is
moving aggressively to expand operations globally in proposed
partnerships with governments worldwide who are interested in developing
cheaper renewable energy technology.

    PVRE is a 25% partner in a JV which lodged proposals with various State
Governments in Australia to develop giant wind power projects in regional
"Wind Energy Kitchens."

    The announcement by the Australian federal government to fund $1.1
billion for renewable energy technology and electricity grids has
encouraged PVRE to pursue funding and projects opportunities there.

    The JV has proposed to build very large wind power plants providing clean
power at a lower cost, to enable Australian industries and consumers to
switch from dirty coal power to cheaper clean wind power.

    BP's devastating Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster means investors are
switching to renewable energy stocks as they realize that risky fossil
fuel energy companies can destroy the environment and instantly collapse
shareholder value.

    PVRE's Jet-Speed, Accelerated Wind Power technology JV could potentially
shake up the world's energy-cost equation. Breakthrough accelerating wind
power technology promises to increase wind energy capture efficiency and
dramatically lower production costs; finally making wind power cheaper
than fossil fuels. 

    PVRE proposes nations jointly conduct a sustained build-out of
large-scale, cheaper, accelerated wind power plants worldwide. 

    Additional nation-changing "Big Wind" proposals are in preparation.

    See: www.pvre.biz

    This Press Release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include,
but are not limited to, statements regarding our current business plans,
strategies and objectives that involve risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. The
forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and what
we believe are reasonable assumptions. However, our actual performance,
results and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in,
or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Factors, within and
beyond our control, that could cause or contribute to such differences
include, among others, the following: risks associated with exploration,
competition, management of growth, new products, services and
technologies, potential fluctuations in operating results, international
expansion, commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic
transactions, government regulation and taxation.

    

For information, contact: 
Peter Sterling
President 
(323) 356-7777 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>