<doc>
<title>Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc. Announces Joint Venture for 28 ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-05</date>
<snippet>... to the Gulf area to meet with government and BP officials to arrange for tests to illustrate how calcium carbonate can be used to clean up the oil spill. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  LAS VEGAS, NV, Aug 05 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: TWDL), a diversified gold,
mineral and rock mining company, today announced its plans for the joint
venture development of an H2O plant from a well that is currently
producing 28 million gallons of water per year. TWDL and NWWW, Inc., a
Nevada Corporation, are joint 50/50 partners in this project which will
utilize water from one of the wells on the Blue Jacket Mine property just
outside of Nelson, Nevada, located just a twenty minute drive from either
Las Vegas or Boulder City, Nevada.

    This well is situated on 70 acres of privately owned land which is patent
protected, meaning that it is not subject to being managed by the Bureau
of Land Management, and all of the natural resources on the land belong
to the owners. Today, especially in the desert area throughout Nevada and
the surrounding states, water is a resource that is at a premium, and the
price of good quality bottled water reflects that value. 

    The Company is proud to announce that water from the well mentioned above
was verified to be of good quality when it was tested in April 2010 by
the Nevada State Health Laboratory at the University of Nevada School of
Medicine. It passed all of the Nevada State health standards. The
significance of being able to market pure water from a natural source
became apparent in July of 2007 when CNN reported that three of the
largest bottlers of water in the U.S. admitted that their bottled water
came from a public water supply. Pepsi-Cola (Aquafina) and Nestle (All
Nestle Pure Life) reported they would change the wording on their bottles
to identify whether their water came from tap water or a ground-well
source. Coca Cola (Dasani) at that time had no plans to change their
labeling.(1)

    Pepsi Cola reported that in 2006, the U.S. bottled water business
amounted to roughly $15 billion.(1) Water is also the primary ingredient
in carbonated soft drinks, and that industry had a retail dollar volume
of about $72.7 billion in 2009.(2) 

    NWWW is owned by the Whipple family whose involvement in mining goes back
four generations which has made them renowned as pioneers in the mining
industry in Nevada and Utah. Most recently they have been large providers
of sand and gravel for highways throughout the area, as well as
decorative rocks for landscaping, home exteriors and various other uses
in this arid region where water is a sacred commodity.

    Multiple rich natural resources are being mined through the joint venture
efforts of TWDL and NWWW. Calcium carbonate continues to be a primary
focus for the Company as has recently been reported. On August 16th, a
team from the Company will be traveling to the Gulf area to meet with
government and BP officials to arrange for tests to illustrate how
calcium carbonate can be used to clean up the oil spill. 

    1 Report dated July 27, 2007 by CNN online at www.money.cnn.com 
 2
Beverage Digest, Volume 54, No.7, March 30, 2009

    Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
 This press release
contains statements, which may constitute "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Those statements include statements regarding the
intent, belief or current expectations of Texas Wyoming Drilling, Inc.
and members of its management as well as the assumptions on which such
statements are based. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may differ
materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. 

    

Media and Investor Relations Contact:
Al Roensch
Phone: (415) 342-1779
Email: aroensch@aol.com 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>