<doc>
<title>MOP Environmental Solutions Expands Sales Staff With Addition of ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-17</date>
<snippet>... on behalf of MOP, Michael is currently working with one of the world's largest refineries on a plan for converting their existing oil spill remediation product ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  BATH, NH, Aug 17 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
MOP Environmental Solutions, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: MOPN) to continue its
superior customer service, MOP Environmental has added six sales
representatives to their Sales Force. 

    Mr. Charles Diamond MOP Environmental CEO was quoted as saying, "When you
look at the Quality and Credentials of each of our new Sales
Representatives we are thrilled with the wealth of talent, experience,
and contacts that we have added to the Expanded MOP Sales Team."

    MOP Environmental's six new sales representatives are: Carl Joseph
Bleier, Michael Bruno, Captain Jack McConnell, Inman Ellis, Jimmy Van der
Broeck, and Chris Eilertsen.

    Mr. Chris Eilertsen: Chris Eilertsen comes to us directly from a former
competitor for whom he was a national sales representative. Chris lives
in the Panhandle area of Florida so he can keep an eye on the Gulf
related opportunities as he develops relationships in Florida and across
the country. He has a keen eye for new opportunities and is definitely an
outside the box thinker. He brings with him a long list of national and
international contacts and relationships and has already opened the doors
to NASCAR, as well as one large airline company. We are expecting big
things from him. In addition to prospective sales Chris will also be
looking for potential distributors and direct-to-consumer opportunities.
He'll be working collaboratively with Robert "Rob" King, who hails from
the Atlantic coast of Florida. Rob helped develop the new MOP Boat Boom
and has been testing the boom on his own boat (4 months and still
floating high and beautiful) and he's been helping us develop a plan for
marketing them to marinas and boat retailers. 

    Mr. Carl Joseph Bleier: Carl has experienced a very successful diverse 35
year career with The Coca-Cola Company, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Coca-Cola
Foods, Minute Maid Company, Best Foods and CPC International, Inc.
Working in the World Wide Coca-Cola system and CPC International, Inc.
both in the domestic and international arenas took him to over 80
locations all over the world. Carl's most recent position was President
of Pinnacle Aeronautics Inc. where he was also a member of their Board of
Directors. Prior to the aforementioned position Carl was Chief Executive
Officer and President of CJB & Associates, a strategic business partner
for Profiles International Inc., the largest assessment company in the
world. Carl's focus will be on development of large domestic and
international accounts. 

    Mr. Michael Bruno: Michael is the President of Electricity Wise
Strategies, a distributor of Green products for energy conservation and
environmental remediation. Michael's region is the U.S. Virgin Islands
and the Caribbean basin. Among his other projects on behalf of MOP,
Michael is currently working with one of the world's largest refineries
on a plan for converting their existing oil spill remediation product
purchases to a more comprehensive Green Oil Spill Prevention and Response
plan utilizing MOP products. Michael and MOP are collaborating on
development of a consulting program to assist companies that use oil
spill products in the development of more comprehensive green plans for
both preventing spills and responding to those spills that can't be
prevented. We believe this is a whole new area of opportunity for MOP
that we expect to aggressively pursue.

    Captain Jack McConnell: As the owner of Kiawa Sailing Tours, Captain Jack
has a fascinating group of regular customers, many of whom are business
owners. As a MOP shareholder and long-time friend of MOP Jack has eagerly
agreed to work on selling MOP and developing relationships that could
lead to large corporate contracts. 

    Jimmy Van der Broeck: A loyal MOP shareholder and a resident of the
Netherlands, probably no one individual has provided more leads and ideas
for improving MOP's outreach than Jimmy. In addition to providing us with
insight into new opportunities Jimmy will be working on developing
relationships with both businesses and nonprofit organizations in Europe.
Jimmy graduated as an engineer 10 years ago and has been working in a
petrochemical company ever since, first in their maintenance division and
now for 6 years as an operations supervisor, which includes the
responsibility of first response. He regularly conducts training in oil
spill response. No one knows "first response" better than Jimmy so we are
very pleased to have him on board. 

    Inman Ellis: Inman Ellis owns Coastal Brush Cutting in Mobile, Alabama
and has a wealth of contacts. Members of our team recently spent a few
days with Inman in Alabama. The number of people that enthusiastically
greeted Inman was very impressive. Inman's wide range of contacts
provides him with regular opportunities for developing relationships and
sales on behalf of MOP.

    Mr. Charles Diamond was quoted as saying, "To build a Great Company you
need a Great Team. To build a Great Team you need Great People. Chris
Eilertsen, Carl Joseph Bleier, Michael Bruno, Captain Jack McConnell,
Jimmy Van der Broeck, Inman Ellis, are Great People to add to all the
Great People of the MOP Family. Each has the ability to accelerate MOP
Environmental's assent to becoming the Number One Oil Recovery Product
Manufacturer in the World."

    ABOUT MOP ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, INC. 

    MOP Environmental Solutions, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: MOPN) is a publicly traded
company. MOP Maximum Oil Pickup is a "cradle-to-cradle" green product
that is arguably the most effective oil spill recovery system on the
market. For information see www.mopenvironmental.com.

    Brief Description of The MOP Technology: 
 MOP Maximum Oil Pickup is an
aggressive oleophilic and hydrophobic (oil attracting and water
repelling) sorbent made from recycled and fully biodegradable materials,
manufactured using hydroelectric energy. MOP's properties are such that
it can effectively deal with an oil spill the size of the Exxon Valdez,
but is equally effective at cleaning up oil spills off a garage floor. 

    MOP Environmental Solutions, Inc. manufactures and distributes MOP(R)
Maximum Oil Pickup. MOP picks up and recovers oil spilled on land and/or
water. This revolutionary, 100% Recyclable, new absorbent material picks
up to 30 times its own weight in oil, without absorbing water, restores
traction on slippery surfaces, and safely restores a clean, natural
environment.

    Forward-looking statements in this news release are pursuant to safe
harbor provisions of Section 21E of Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Investors are cautioned that statements in this release are not strictly
historical statements, including without limitation, management's plans
and objectives for future operations, assessment of market factors,
statements regarding strategy, company plans and its strategic partners.
These constitute forward-looking statements, are not guarantees of the
company's future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties,
such as funding for machinery and materials, success in acquiring
customers, maintaining needed government relationships, and successfully
executing a business plan, which could cause the company's actual future
results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. For all
such forward-looking statements, we claim the safe harbor for
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. MOP Environmental Solutions, Inc.
disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement made
herein. 

    

CONTACT: 
Wayne D. King 
(603)-786-9378 
mop@mopenvironmental.com
MOP Environmental Solutions, Inc. 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>