<doc>
<title>AmeriLithium Underscores Benefits of Emerging Green Technology ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-16</date>
<snippet>... 2). In sharp contrast, BP's Gulf of Mexico oil spill has already had severe effects on the environment and economy, including:(3). ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    

		
			AmeriLithium Underscores Benefits of Emerging Green Technology Over Oil Industry Reliance
			PR Newswire
			HENDERSON, NV, Aug. 16
		
			HENDERSON, NV, Aug. 16 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- AmeriLithium Corp. (OTC Bulletin Board: AMEL; "AmeriLithium" or "the Company") is pleased to draw attention to the positives of today's emerging green technologies as compared to the liabilities of ongoing reliance on oil industry-based technologies. In particular, the advantages offered by continual advances in plug-in and electric vehicles and battery technology will continue to offer cleaner, greener and more sustainable solutions than those of oil-burning technologies, such as gasoline-powered vehicles."The critics automatically point out that many green technologies, such as plug-ins and all-electric cars, rely on carbon-based fuels to create the electricity needed to power them," commented Matthew Worrall, AmeriLithium's Chief Executive Officer. "While the majority of America's electricity does come from burning coal and natural gas, we're also making technological advances on those fronts too, all of which allows these new green technologies to operate in more environmentally friendly ways than ever before. Besides, the alternative is no alternative at all: to continue relying on oil despite it being a limited, and increasingly expensive, natural resource, both in terms of financial and environmental expense."Through new technologies such as flue gas desulfurization equipment ("scrubbers"), catalytic converters, electrostatic precipitators and baghouses, coal emissions from electricity generating power plants have dropped by roughly 33% in the last 30 years while coal use has nearly tripled in that same time.(1) Meanwhile, the use of cleaner-burning natural gas to produce electricity is on the rise while the Energy Information Administration expects 57% of new electricity generation capacity built by 2025 will be natural gas-powered.(2) In sharp contrast, BP's Gulf of Mexico oil spill has already had severe effects on the environment and economy, including:(3)
			Sea turtles found dead: 444Birds found dead: 1,387Days that oil gushed into the Gulf: 85Estimated number of gallons of oil leaked: 184 millionShoreline currently oiled: 572 milesArea of visible slick: 2,700 square milesArea closed to fishing: 83,927 square milesGallons of dispersant 'clean up' chemicals applied: 1.82 millionMarket value of the spilled oil: $336 millionCost to BP: $30 billion to dateNot to mention the long-term environmental damage, the scope and time-length of which cannot even be predicted by experts. Populations of dolphins, whale sharks and sea turtles may not recover for years, according to a July 16, 2010 article in The Guardian, while also pointing out that fish and shrimp-breeding habitats will have been adversely affected.(3)And while spills such as the one in the Gulf of Mexico are relatively rare oil industry occurrences, the 184 million barrels of oil in question are no more than Americans burn every five hours and 10 minutes on a regular basis.(3) With such massive dependence on and consumption of oil, companies such as BP continue to make record profits (BP's Q2 2010 profits were expected to have risen 77% to $5 billion, had the spill not occurred, according to a July 26 Reuters article).(4) And even while BP's attempts to stop the gushing oil well had yet to be proven successful, the company announced on July 19, 2010 that it would expand its offshore portfolio by developing new Mediterranean Sea hydrocarbon deposits through an agreement with Egypt's government. The new development will add to BP's daily production of 2.5 million barrels of oil production, about a third of which comes from deepwater production, with all its challenges and dangers(5) (according to the federal Minerals Management Service, since 2001, there have been 69 offshore deaths, 1,349 injuries and 858 fires and explosions in the Gulf of Mexico alone).(6) Still, BP continues exploring offshore the coasts of foreign countries such as Libya and Egypt, and is the leading foreign investor in Azerbaijan, operating two major fields in that country's waters.(5)In comparison, green technologies, such as today's emerging plug-in and all-electric vehicles, not only avoid the dangers of offshore drilling, but also rely on domestically produced electricity for their power. And with roughly 69% of America's electricity being generated by coal or natural gas-powered plants,(7) this energy source also represents far greater energy independence than that of relying on foreign oil reserves (America has the world's largest reserves of recoverable coal(8) and is the world's second largest producer of natural gas, meeting about 25% of the nation's energy needs(9)). Furthermore, electricity can also be generated domestically through completely renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar, hydro and waves.FOR MORE INFORMATIONMore information on the advantages of green technologies, and additional information regarding the Company, can be found at AmeriLithium's corporate website www.amerilithium.com along with the facility to sign up for regular news updates.ABOUT LITHIUM: Lithium is a lightweight metal used in a wide range of consumer products the world over: the medical industry uses Lithium as an anti-depressant; industrial uses include glass, ceramic and porcelain enamel manufacture; the aviation industry uses Lithium in alloys. Of particular interest is the use of Lithium for battery production, which has expanded significantly in recent years due to rechargeable Lithium batteries being used increasingly in electrical tools and in the rapidly expanding portable electronics market. Furthermore, the next generation of hybrid and electric vehicles are being designed to use high-capacity Lithium-ion batteries as environmentally-friendly fuel alternatives while the Obama administration has introduced $5 billion in funding and incentives for the development of a secure, domestic battery industry with special focus on Lithium-ion batteries.ABOUT AMERILITHIUM: AmeriLithium is a publicly traded (NASD OTC BB: AMEL), mining company committed to progressively developing into one of the leading American players in the global Lithium industry. The Company is headquartered in Henderson, NV. AmeriLithium has amassed a Lithium portfolio consisting of ~724,000 acres, including three Nevada-based projects nearby the only Lithium producing plant in the US, a large project in Alberta, Canada, and a project in Western Australia.
			ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS,
						AmeriLithium Corp.
						Matthew Worrall, Chief Executive Officer
						Contact:
						AmeriLithium Corp.
						871 Coronado Center Dr.
						Ste. 200
						Henderson
						Nevada
						89052
						Phone:         (702) 583-7790
						Fax:           (702) 583-7791
						Email:          info@amerilithium.com
						INVESTOR RELATIONS:
						Toll Free:        1-888-982-6374
						Email:          ir@amerilithium.com
						Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Such forward-looking statements are within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  AmeriLithium Corp. bases these forward-looking statements on current expectations and projections about future events, based on information currently available.  The forward-looking statements contained in this press release may also include statements relating to AmeriLithium Corp.'s anticipated financial performance, business prospects, new developments, strategies and similar matters.  AmeriLithium Corp. disclaims any obligation to update any of its forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.
			1 ConocoPhillips website, Apr. 12, 2010
						2 Natural Gas Supply Association website (NaturalGas.org), Apr. 14, 2010
						3 The Guardian website, July 16, 2010
						4 Reuters website, July 26, 2010
						5 New York Times website, July 21, 2010
						6 MSNBC.com, April 22, 2010
						7 US Energy Information Administration (EIA) website, July 27, 2008
						8 Coal: An Abundant Energy Resource. American Coal Council, May 27, 2009
						9 ConocoPhillips website, Apr. 14, 2010
						SOURCE  AmeriLithium Corp.
		


	
    </content>
</doc>