<doc>
<title>Liberty Energy Enters Into Equity Financing Agreement for Up to ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-16</date>
<snippet>... United States, in conjunction with US Congress' proposed legislation that will tighten offshore drilling rules in the wake of the recent BP oil spill in the ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    

Liberty Energy Corp. (OTCBB:LBYE) ("Liberty" or "the Company") announces that
they have entered into a non-toxic equity financing agreement with Asia-Pacific
Capital Ltd. (APC) for up to $8,000,000.

The company has signed a $4,000,000 financing agreement with APC. In addition,
the agreement includes the option to secure a further $4,000,000, bringing the
total value of the deal to $8,000,000 in equity investment over a maximum term
of four years. The company has secured equity financing, and as such is debt
free.

APC has agreed to the funding in an effort to further the company's expansion
and growth plan. The funds will be used primarily for drilling, development and
other operating expenses.

Under the terms of the agreement the Company shall issue units of the Company at
Unit Price. The unit price means a price equal to the higher of either $ 0.50,
or 90% of the volume-weighted average of the closing price of Common Stock, for
the five days immediately preceding the date of the Notice. Each unit shall
consist of one share (restricted) of the common stock of the Company and one and
a half share purchase warrant. Each Warrant shall entitle the Subscriber to
purchase one additional share of Common Stock, at an exercise price equal to
125% of the Unit Price at which the Unit containing the Warrant being exercised
was issued, for a period of three (3) years from the date such Warrant is
issued.

An initial drawdown of the funds has already been received by the Company to
begin on work-overs of existing wells that have an anticipated completion as
early as September 2010.

The Company is due to re-enter the Dahlstrom #1 well imminently. The re-entry
will perforate the intervals with potentially productive sands, and increase the
level of production of natural gas, which upon successful completion it is
anticipated the well could be able to produce ten to fifteen times the level of
output currently achieved.

Further funding will be made available for re-entering (3) shut in wells and
drilling out (1) well on the Lockhart Lease. These wells are key in enabling the
Company to locate offset new drill locations. A new drill could produce 3 or 4
times that of the re-entered wells. Re-entering the wells will hold the leases
by production securing the Company enough time to evaluate the geology and
engineering to determine the next stage of development. With current acreage
giving the potential to space a potential further 282 new wells over roughly 848
acres, the development of this property will be the key focus for the Company
moving forward.

"This financing agreement has come at the perfect time, both in terms of the
Company and the market. On our end, we already have great projects in place that
are primed and ready for their next stages of development. In terms of the
market, recent threats by the Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez to cut oil
supplies to the United States, in conjunction with U.S. Congress' proposed
legislation that will tighten offshore drilling rules in the wake of the recent
BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, surely validates our strategy of securing
domestic onshore oil and gas production. This funding will now allow Liberty to
take advantage of these market conditions that we believe have opened up
interesting domestic onshore opportunities to increase shareholder value," said
Ian Spowart, Liberty's Chief Executive Officer.

"We are extremely pleased to have secured a non-toxic equity investment that
does not include any debt financing. We are very fortunate not to have any debt
obligations or debt financing. This capital will not only enable us to continue
our existing operational activities but will provide us with sufficient capital
for our long term needs allowing us to strategically move ahead and take Liberty
to the next level," stated Daniel Martinez-Atkinson, Chief Financial Officer of
Liberty Energy Corp.

ABOUT LIBERTY: Liberty Energy Corp. (OTCBB:LBYE) is an Independent Oil and Gas
Exploration and Production Company dedicated to the sourcing and production of
fuel supplies in the United States and Europe. Headquartered in Houston, Texas,
the company has signed agreements to acquire leases and royalties in both Texas
and Bulgaria, covering several wells with extensive potential for future
development. In Texas, four leases -- Dahlstrom, Ratliff, and two at Lockhart
Northeast -- are identified as rich oil and gas sites based around numerous
geological pay zones. In North-West Bulgaria, Liberty has acquired royalty
rights to a 1,000,000+ acre natural gas property (the A-Lovech exploration
block), an area of high quality, low- sulphur natural gas condensate. Through
this combined international reach and domestic focus, Liberty Energy is
committed to the development of US fuel reserves while seeking out further
opportunities for the global energy markets.

Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking and involve a
number of risks and uncertainties.  Such forward-looking statements are within
the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
Liberty Energy Corp. bases these forward-looking statements on current
expectations and projections about future events, based on information currently
available.  The forward-looking statements contained in this press release may
also include statements relating to Liberty Energy Corp.'s anticipated financial
performance, business prospects, new developments, strategies and similar
matters.  Liberty Energy Corp. disclaims any obligation to update any of its
forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.

ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS,

Liberty Energy Corp.

Ian Spowart, Chief Executive Officer

CONTACT:  Liberty Energy Corp.
            713-353-4700
            Fax: 713-353-4701
            info@energy-liberty.com
          Investor Relations:
            1-877-890-1650
            ir@energy-liberty.com
          Two Allen Center
          Suite 1600
          1200 Smith Street
          Houston, TX 77002




	
    </content>
</doc>