<doc>
<title>IHS Global Insight World Economic Outlook Conference Fall 2010 ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-16</date>
<snippet>... or stifle innovation? * What are the economic and policy impacts of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico? * Is debt restructuring ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
Economists, Industry Leaders and Policy Experts to Meet for Semi-Annual Economy
Summit
LEXINGTON, Mass.--(Business Wire)--
The world economy is recovering, though at different speeds around the globe,
yet growth is losing momentum in the face of storm clouds on the horizon. IHS
Global Insight's Fall World Economic Outlook Conference, October 19-21 in
Washington, D.C., will explore the aftershocks of The Great Recession and the
looming opportunities and risks for global business and policy decisions. 

Economists, experts and government and industry leaders will discuss how to
maneuver in a multi-speed economy with Asia in the fast lane, Europe in the slow
lane and North America in the middle. Speakers and panels will consider the
global push for financial regulations, Europe's sovereign debt challenges, the
shifting geopolitical balance in Asia, economic uncertainties in emerging
markets and the mid-term elections in the United States and options for fiscal
policy. 

For more than 20 years, the World Economic Outlook Conference has been widely
considered the leading forum on the direction of the global economy. This year's
conference will offer critical assessments and analyses by experts from IHS
Global Insight, IHS CERA, IHS Jane's, as well as from outside experts, top
academics and industry leaders. Issues to be examined include:

* The strength and sustainability of the global economic recovery. 
* Will financial regulation reform reduce systemic risk or stifle innovation? 
* What are the economic and policy impacts of the oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico? 
* Is debt restructuring avoidable in Europe and what does it mean for regional
growth? 
* Is a double dip recession in the cards for the U.S. and what are the options
for U.S. fiscal policy? 
* What do the U.S. mid-term elections foreshadow and will the President and the
new Congress be able to work together on the next big challenges?

"The global economic recovery is losing steam and the future is filled with
uncertainty," said conference chair IHS Chief Economist Nariman Behravesh. "Asia
is recovering more strongly and more quickly than the rest of the globe; Europe
is barely treading water and the U.S. just seems to be muddling along, despite
the near death and miraculous recovery of the nation's iconic automotive
industry." 

"This fall's World Economic Outlook Conference has assembled an impressive list
of experts to make sense of it all with insights and perspectives aimed at
helping leaders grapple with these challenges and build more effective business
strategies," Behravesh added. 

Speakers and Panel Discussion Participants:

* Alan Blinder, professor of economics, Princeton University, and former vice
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. 
* Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute 
* George Buckley, chairman, president and chief executive officer, 3M 
* David Leonhardt, economics writer, The New York Times
* David Wessel, economics editor, the Wall Street Journal
* William Gale, Arjay and Frances Miller chair in Federal Economic Policy, the
Brookings Institution 
* Valerie Plagnol, chief strategist, CM-CIC Securities 
* Karen Shaw Petrou, co-founder and managing partner of Federal Financial
Analytics, Inc. 
* Peter Wallison, Arthur F. Burns Fellow, Financial Policy Studies, American
Enterprise Institute 
* Philip Suttle, Institute of International Finance

Focus Discussions:

* Healthcare - Outlook for the healthcare and pharma markets and implications
for the industry. 
* Pricing and Purchasing - Outlook for aerospace and defense materials and
labor; factors driving manufacturers and suppliers costs. 
* Trade and Transportation - Impact of the shifting economy on global trade and
transportation; transportation risks in developing world; overview of "green"
legislation and its impact on transportation.

Registration

The World Economic Outlook Conference and Applied Economic Insight Workshops
will be held October 19-21, 2010, at the Gaylord National Hotel, National
Harbor, Maryland (near Washington, D.C.). Additional information and participant
registration is available at www.ihsglobalinsight.com/weocfall2010

News Media

At this fall's World Economic Outlook Conference we are pleased once again to
offer accredited members of the news media a dedicated working environment that
will provide Internet connections, ample workspace and a staff liaison to
facilitate interviews and assist journalists with working on-site. Members of
the news media interested in covering the event can do so free of charge, but
must register in advance by e-mailing jim.dorsey@ihsglobalinsight.com or
katherine.smith@ihsglobalinsight.com.

About IHS Global Insight

IHS Global Insight (www.ihsglobalinsight.com), an IHS company, provides the most
comprehensive economic and financial information available on countries, regions
and industries, using a unique combination of expertise, models, data and
software within a common analytical framework to support planning and
decision-making. Through the world's first same-day analysis and risk assessment
service, IHS Global Insight provides immediate insightful analysis of market
conditions and key events around the world, covering economic, political, and
operational factors. IHS (NYSE: IHS) is a leading source of information and
insight in pivotal areas that shape today`s business landscape: energy,
economics, geopolitical risk, sustainability and supply chain management.
Businesses and governments around the globe rely on the comprehensive content,
expert independent analysis and flexible delivery methods of IHS to make
high-impact decisions and develop strategies with speed and confidence. IHS has
been in business since 1959 and became a publicly traded company on the New York
Stock Exchange in 2005. Headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, USA, IHS employs
more than 4,200 people in more than 30 countries around the world. 

IHS is a registered trademark of IHS Inc. All other company and product names
may be trademarks of their respective owners. Copyright © 2010 IHS Inc. All
rights reserved.

IHS Global Insight
Jim Dorsey
+1 781-301-9069
jim.dorsey@ihsglobalinsight.com
or
IHS Press Desk
+1 303-305-8021
press@ihs.com



Copyright Business Wire 2010




	
    </content>
</doc>