<doc>
<title>James Lee Witt Named Senior Advisor at Zimek Technologies ...</title>
<source>Reuters</source>
<date>2010-08-16</date>
<snippet>... Witt's firm recently joined the support and recovery operations of Gulf Coast communities in the wake of the oil and gas spill in the Gulf of Mexico. ...</snippet>
<content>
        
    
  TAMPA, FL, Aug 16 (MARKET WIRE) -- 
Zimek Technologies (www.zimek.com) is pleased to announce today the
addition of James Lee Witt, Chief Executive Officer of Witt Associates,
as Senior Advisor at Zimek, the industry leader in infection control and
biohazard remediation systems. Witt was Cabinet-level Director of FEMA
(Federal Emergency Management Agency) during the Clinton Administration.

    As a Senior Advisor to Zimek Technologies, Witt will work closely with
Advisory Board members including former Illinois State Senate President
Emil Jones Jr.; Dr. Brad Spellberg, infectious disease specialist at the
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and Harbor-UCLA Medical Center;
Dr. Peder Bo Nielsen, consultant in Microbiology with the United
Kingdom's North West London NHS Trust; and Dr. Lindsey Shaw, Assistant
Professor of Molecular Microbiology at the University of South Florida.

    "Zimek Technologies is thrilled to have James Lee Witt join our team,"
stated Kurt Grosman, CEO of Zimek. "Having Mr. Witt onboard is a
testament to the effectiveness of our products and the need for stronger
decontamination protocols. He will provide unprecedented leadership in
the growth of our company." Zimek's sophisticated three-dimensional
touch-less decontamination technology is being implemented in many
facilities nationwide to effectively prevent the spread of deadly viruses
and bacteria. 

    Witt's firm recently joined the support and recovery operations of Gulf
Coast communities in the wake of the oil and gas spill in the Gulf of
Mexico. Witt currently serves as a Special Advisor to the State of
Louisiana, assisting with the nation's largest long-term recovery effort
in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.Witt Associates, a public
safety and crisis management consulting firm based in Washington D.C.,
focuses on disaster recovery and mitigation management services to state
and local governments, educational institutions, the international
community and corporations.

    "There must be a stronger focus on prevention of infection, not just
remediation after the infection occurs," Witt added. "Decontamination can
play a larger role in our efforts to combat deadly viral and bacterial
infections, and is giving us a powerful new tool in the arsenal to fight
biohazard attacks."

    Zimek Technologies, based in Tampa, Florida, has been developing and
marketing its patented automatic Micro-Mist(R) decontamination
technologies for more than five years. Zimek's industry-leading
technologies are used by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, fire
and EMS departments, healthcare facilities, public health agencies,
transit systems, correctional facilities, and local law enforcement
agencies across America.

    

Bob Mazza
310-994-4847
mazzaefx@earthlink.net 

Copyright 2010, Market Wire, All rights reserved.

-0-



	
    </content>
</doc>